Recto

O my ve[nerab]le Elder and Superior. .. [may God prolong your lif]e, grant you lasting happiness, care for
and protect you. May you not be denied His granting of success. I am writing to you in a state of good health—may you not be deprived of such
a state nor lack God's blessing and "thanks be to God, Lord of all the worlds" in abundance. Your letter arrived ... The pot arrived,
may I never be deprived of your favor, and may God reward you in my stead. Amen. This is to inform you, my Elder, that I have packed nine bales,
in each one three qintars and a third, without packing material and without any madder, as you instructed.
Zuhayr and his brother, and Hiba Ibn al-Khaṭīb were present at the time of the evaluation of the flax. We were not able to weigh
the flax that same day. I estimated its weight as being about ten (i.e. about the weight of ten bales), and I evaluated the worth of the load as being twenty-five dinars, and I saw to it
that it was packed. I sent the canvas for wrapping to Busir, and I had written on it the mark as you instructed in your letter.
[Abū] Saʿīd Khallūf oversaw the writing. Al-Shīrajī packed eight bales and stated that he would weigh
the ten bales. Salāma went to Ashmunayn, but he did not find a ship. He will go the day after my writing this to
Busir in search of one—may God make this matter easy and bring us together with you. Zuhayr's letter
and Ibn al-Khaṭīb's will reach you along with the bales—God willing—apprising you of what has happened.
Please be so advised. In your letters—may God strengthen you—you discuss the matter of the madder plants which 
... the flax ... the flax is of mixed (quality). So if you wish 
[to sen]d [me ... ] against that which I have, so that I shall buy more madder, then do it. I have with me twenty-two dinars.
If you wish to send a sum to cover it and that I should collect the madder, then please do so. And if you do not 
wish me to buy it for you in partnership nor for myself personally at my own expense, then I shall satisfy your wish in this matter. I have
five bundles of madder plants, they being seventy-five in number and no more. By God, from the day that your letter arrived in which you mentioned
this matter, I have not bought even one batch, as it is my desire in this to satisfy your wish. It is not within me that
I would make any profit which would come to me from this if /you/ yourself would not be pleased. I would not wish such a thing.
Please be so advised. I am progressing with the hatcheling (of the flax) this week which is ending. With me
there is a group (of workers) and every day they increase. We hatchel six or seven bundles a day, and more. Every day the
work increases. May God in His omnipotence make the work easy and help us to complete it. Already
this week lbn al-Ghazaliyya has begun pounding the (madder?) and he has ruined the wages (of the workers) for us. But I regained honor with the hired help
by showing them the dinars [I had with me .... ] And the government financial administrator has also taken some of
lbn al-[ ... ]'s help, .... I have not had any trouble with Yaḥyā at all this week.
Every week he ... and now is the time we have been anticipating.
By God, the small money I had with me is not ... and by God, I had to borrow more than fifteen dinars.
I now have with me only fifty [dir]hems and no more. He (the work foreman) will not hatchel or turn the madder until
he received the workers's wages. And if I keep from paying one individual, he will not hatchel even one madder plant until he received
daily food, and until the wages are settled for the workers. I wish I had the dinars with me
so I could give them to anyone

Recto, margins
who demanded something. I must pay. I cannot put them off without their going over to someone else. I wanted to send you the 'young man' Ibn ... from Bab al- ... he will find pretext ... the matter of the ship is incumbent upon us, and the arrival of the ...
Verso

If Abu l-Khayr is coming here anyhow, send the necessary money to me with him so I shall not be left penniless—my state being ruined. The workers are melting way from me.
And if Abu l-Khayr is not coming, either ... with someone else or send
me someone special. Do not fail me. I do not have to enjoin upon you more than this ... the' young man' Jacob the flax to you, but he is
late in going to Fusta[t ... ] And Iqbāl is now completely well, but al-Ḥaṣrī (or the 'young man'?) is not
fit for anything and cannot do [anything ... ] I sent him to someone else
who would come and arrange his affairs ... if I want him to do anything for me and say to him one word, he answers
with ten. Iqbāl will tell you about him, may God protect him; if God is willing, he will reach you and tell some of his miserable doings. He (Iqbāl)
will be coming down with Salāma. and I shall stay as I am unless God should help me. If you do not find anyone to send,
and you think it proper to send the money with Hilāl, then do so. The matter is for you to decide. Please be so advised. I extend to you
my best greetings and to my master Abu 'l-Faḍl—may God protect him. And my best greetings to my Masters, Abū Sahl and Abū Saʿīd—
may God watch over them. God is my portion and He is my hope. As to the cloak that you sent to Abraham, he did not
take it, and it is with me. It is not worth a dinar, and it is light. These people like whatever has wool in it. Buy him
a heavy cloak and send it to me because he is ill. And I ask that my Master, the Elder, if he would be so kind as to buy
for me a piece and a half of muthallath cloth produced in Fustat. I will make from it a robe and trousers. The robe which I was wearing 
is torn to shreds, and I am wearing just the jubba against my body /for I have not what to wear./ And if it is not convenient to get the cloth, buy for me a garment
and used trousers for a suit from the Sūq al-Ḥammām (Bazaar of the Bath). Do not neglect this. Please be so advised.
In accordance with your request, I have prepared an accounting which will reach you [God willing) either in Hebrew letters in my own handwriting
[or in Arabic] in the handwriting of I[bn a]l-[Khaṭīb (?)] [ ... and p]e[ac]e be with you.

Verso, address, right column

To my venerable Elder and Superior ...
Abu 'I-Faraj Yōsēf b. Yaʿaqōv
Ibn ʿAwkal (may his soul find rest)
May God grant him continual health and happiness,
and may He preserve him.

Verso, address, left column

From Mūsā b. Isḥāq b. Ḥisda (may his soul find rest)
his friend and his admirer
