Recto

Inventory [of the possessions] on the middle floor: two big cauldrons with earthen pots
for boiling paint, and two small pots for cooking and
three small copper pots and four other earthen cauldrons
for cooking and four iron pans for frying and two copper mortars and six
iron shovels and a ewer [with a long, narrow neck] and a bistam(?) for sweets
and two hammers for carpentry [or for cutting stone] and a stool and two scales for raṭls,
and five raṭls of lead and seven raṭls of lead
in one piece and a copper latticework and two copper buckets for the oven
and a copper cup and three small earthen pots and four troughs for dough
and a hand mill and an iron rod and three old carpets
and a mulḥam cloth [whose warp is of silk and weft of cotton] and a laborer’s garment made of brown wool (busht) and a threadbare blue cloth (khalaq) and a pair of underwear (sirwāl) and another
mulḥam cloth and another laborer’s garment and another pair of underwear
and a worn linen robe and an Iraqi burd gown and a Nūlī and big turban (biqyār)
and a scarf and a new Andalusī robe and raw Andalusī cloth
and a Sūsī scarf and a small biqyār from Nūlwith, its storage box and another
pair of underwear and a khalaq cloth; [. . . .];
and a small chest containing the prayer book by R. Saʿadya [Gaon], of blessed memory and a volume
of the Book of Psalms and a Maghrebī prayer book and an Arabic poetry book;
and a copper basket for cups and a big copper cauldron for frankincense (olibanum, lubān);
and a copper cover for a water jug and three copper cooking pots and two lamps,
one big and one small and two pairs of covers for coolers
and a piece of sandalwood weighing three raṭls and another copper cover
for the water jug and a pair of copper cooking pots and two big copper mortars
and a pair of divided meal-carriers of “swollen” copper and another big cauldron for earthen pots
and a small copper cup and a big copper perfume box (zanjala)
and three bowls and a lined chest with
ten raw Andalusī cloths and a Sicilian patched robe
and two garments with large dishes in it and hooks and [. . .]
for the lead workshop [or sugar factory or kitchen] and rods for operating the oven and another copper cooking pot;
[ . . . . ] and three containers for earthen pots
for frankincense (olibanum, lubān) and another small one and ten raṭls of lead and a single ʿAbbadānī mat,16 and a small copper dipper
and a small copper perfume box and a woollen curtain
and another copper perfume box of the bath-houses and a small copper bucket;
a vessel for personal bathing (mirjal) and two stone zīrs (large clay containers) and two big copper cups for zīrs
and a water table jug on a tray (marfaʿ) and another small hand mill
and a cupboard with seventeen water skins and a bowl in its container
and seven empty water skins for oil and a small stone zīr; [. . . .]
and a sword without its scabbard; [. . .] and a basket with fine earthenware dishes
and four small earthen pots and a water cooler and a bowl, both coloured,
containing in them a “foot” for the public house and four broken bowls and two water skins [ . . . ]
of glass in its case.

Recto, margin

a copper water table jug on a tray (marfaʿ) and a small copper cover and a hammer
