Recto


…


[I will] send it with whomever you come to an agreement with and I will give him


the price of fodder for two nights, and I told him 


it wasn’t possible for you to send 


today what you had denied - 


to send saddles and reins - for the fear from you


that you will be displeased. And I rented 


a donkey from Qalyūb to 


Shatanof towards the place of


 the //noble// barges and we sped and stayed


 several days [on the barge] and endured on the Nile


 several hardships. When we reached


 Manūf, the Mālik (Malik al-Afḍal)//may God perpetuate his reign// embarked the barge, and embarked 


 with him my master, and my master al-shaykh


 Abū l-Mufaḍḍal and [we] proceeded towards al-Maḥalla. And I stayed 


 on the barge and stayed ….


 the guide. It did not find anyone


 to send a letter with and this


 is the reason for my letters cutting off from you. And when


 my master returned from al-Maḥalla


 I wrote a letter and sent it with 


 Salāma al-Shirjī but it was brief,


 and I wasn’t able to 


 inform him because of the shortage in time. And with regard


 to textiles, which were


 upon me to get it to al-Maḥalla,


 I haven’t done so but 


 have included it along other textiles.


 And I have acquainted myself with everything


 In your letter and have taken cognizance of it. Another letter


 from you also reached us, and I understood


 ………. And deceit with


 al-Shaykh Abū Sulaymān Dāwūd and what 


 You had asked to safeguard…


 It is safeguarded in a trunk.


 And my Master al-Shaykh Abū l-Mufaḍḍal


 May God grant him a long life, I am grateful for his immense benevolence


 May God the Almighty reward him bountifully and not


 deprive me of his grace and make permanent


 his diligence for my requests


 and all of my matters. My regards to you


 and to whomever expands your eminence.


 My regards to your wife.


 And inform her about my immense longing towards her.


 And kiss on my behalf the hand of my master the Rayyis….


Right margin
And regards
Verso


We entered Alexandria and it was []day


And my master wrote explaining


everything and my master lent Abū l-Mufaḍḍal


a mule, and gave me his donkey. And we are aware of


what happened to the Frankish female slave and I have already told you


What is required and I know you have entrusted


Urjuwān (purple cloth)with Abū l-Afrāḥ (ʿArus b. Yosef)


and also garments and all of which you have instructed me


about, I will enact and inform you about….


my matters and regards. 


I wish to inform you about what happened to the wife of al-Shaykh


Abū Saʿīd. Praise be to God for what happened


for the death of the female child, it was inevitable, may God in return give


a male child soon and we congratulate them f


or her delivery and congratulate them on my behalf 


for her delivery and regards. 

