

... the noble, prophetic (dynasty), may (God) extend its life, over 


all the Christians dwelling in his dominion and living 


[in ] the provinces of his kingdom, in order that he may execute 


their inheritances as required by his statements and pronouncements, both in their general principles and in their specific stipulations. 


The commander of the faithful is the most worthy person to execute the instructions of his ancestor and to act 


…


upon his noble and glorious deeds, which are found in his noble and glorious sunna, 


to water what he has planted and to elevate what he has built and founded. 


He has executed in a glorious and magnificent manner the instructions of this 


gracious decree.' 


He has made these Christians conform 


to his mighty judgments and strengthened 


his sacred and established principles.


 


He assumes the responsibility for the welfare of the members of minority groups and of dimmīs. He offers 


consideration and justice to the weak man


that he may be equal to the strong. He has delegated the present authority to them 


on the basis of the precedent set by his ancestors [     ] 


and with the sanction of the instructions that they issued 


in their time to follow (this precedent) and to continue to act


as is customary, in the knowledge that they are the representatives of God


on earth. He, praise him, has granted 


them the power to extend or restrain. 


Those who are close to them are clothed in their justice


and they have concern and care for all their subjects irrespective of rank. 


In this open decree


the instructions issued by al-Mustansir 




and by al-'Āmir - God increase them in loftiness, pre-eminence,




sublime nobility, glory and splendour for us - have been specified, by virtue of


[       ] the pure, holy presence


[        ] ... consideration of executing them,


and assuming responsibility for implementing the wish of his caliphal throne


and the power of his kingdom, in accordance with what has been specified in this decree


and also with precedents and analogous cases.


This is because the commands of his ancestors, the pure 'imāms,


the blessings of God be upon them all, require


obedience, and their examples (of conduct), while being


visible or hidden, are binding and irrefragable, since they


derive from their kind consideration for everyone


and express their fine resolutions


of sympathy [ ] and mercy.


 


All the judges, arbiters, governors in the provinces -




let them observe this resolution and prescription of the commander of the faithful


and let it be acted upon. Let it be kept


by him who requests it, after being registered where such documents are registered,


if God wills. It was written with ten days remaining of Rabī' II,


in the year four-hundred and fifty-four.


It contains registration marks of all the offices of the pure


presence, God bless him


The verso of this gracious decree contains an endorsement


by the lofty presence of al-‘Afdal


may God make his days eternal,


at the top of which there is the sublime signature,


which has the form: 'Praise be to God for his gifts.


The glorious, prophetic [commands] have been issued ......'


 