recto (IB II, 13)


Your hands shall prevail over your foes, and all your enemies shall be cut down. 


To our esteemed master and lord Abraham—may God remember him favorably! {alt. tr.: may he be remembered for a blessing}—the son of his honor, great and holy master and lord 


Yijū—may he rest in Eden!—(from) your friend Maḍmūn, the son of Ḥasan—may he rest in Eden! 


The letter of my lord, the most illustrious elder, arrived; I read 


[II,14.1: and understood it, and I was happy to learn that you were well] and your affairs


 
recto (IB II, 14)


and understood it, and I was happy to learn that you were well [II,13.5: and your affairs]


in order, for which I thanked God very much


and asked Him to give you more of every good thing. May God unite


us under the most joyful circumstances, and in the best of 


spirits, for he controls this and is able to accomplish it,


God willing! From what you mentioned,


my lord, I learned that you had sent the two locks and the two thousand


white and red betel nuts. I have already


received this, and I thank you for attending


to it. I have sent you


with ʿAbd al-Masīḥ, the deacon, a bundle of


Berbera mats, six in number.


We wrapped them in canvas and your name is written


on it in Arabic and Hebrew.


With him, I have also sent you (a gift) from


me: a new, first-rate, raw Dabīqī scarf,


which has a pretty band on each side


and is fit to be worn by prominent men. Also (sent) with him


are two dasts of fine, large paper


government paper, the like of which


no one has. In addition, (I sent) with him two rubāʿiyyas of


sugar and raisins. See that you receive from him


all this. Everything you had sent


to Abu ʾl-Khayr has arrived, and he has taken delivery of all of it.


He bought Egyptian linen and went up into the


highlands. He requested me to ask you to look after his interests


by sending his remaining


iron and cardamom and the entire balance to his credit.


Send him all this on the first boat


which sails from India. As for iron, this


year it sold (well) in Aden—all


kinds of iron— and in the coming year


there will also be a good market, because


there is none at all left in the city.


Please take notice of this. Please accept for yourself best


wishes, and for your son Surūr and for Bama,


the most profuse greetings. And peace.


 
verso (IB II, 14)


Please give Sūs Sītī and Kinbātī {read: Kinābtī} ⟦and Isḥā…⟧


and Isḥāq the Bānyān my best regards, and tell them


of my longing for them. Inform them in my name that as for pepper, in


this coming year its value, (that is) the price per bahār, will be


30 dinars, and more, and as for refurbished iron,


a bahār will be (worth) not less than 20 dinars,


and that the (supply of ) raqṣ (shining, glittering iron), which was in the city, is completely exhausted.


And if they can they should dispatch a ship from Mangalore,


and send in it any available pepper, iron,


cubeb, and ginger; it should set out at the first opportunity {alt. tr.: at the beginning of the season} for


al-Dyyb (Diū) {alt. tr.: Maldives} taking {alt. tr.: to take} some coir (coconut fiber), fine aloes wood,


mango (?), and coconuts, because all these are selling well.


If they are equipping a ship in Aden, and they want me


to take part, I will share (in it) with them. If there were


a ship sailing for Mangalore this year, I would send them {alt. tr.: Had there been a ship…I would have sent them}


gold, sugar, raisins and (other) goods. Be sure to inform them


of all this, and do not be remiss, for you take the place of


a letter of mine to them. And peace.


 
verso, address (IB II, 14)


(To) The most illustrious elder, Ibrāhīm b.


Īshū, the Israelite—may God preserve his high position!


(From) His servant


Maḍmūn b. al-Ḥa[san].


 
verso, address (IB II, 13)


To our esteemed master and lord Abraham!— 


may God remember him favorably!—the son of our master and lord Yijū—may he rest in Eden! 


(From) Your friend Maḍmūn the son of Ḥasan—may he rest in Eden! 


 