Recto


May God lengthen the life of my lord and master and preserve his well-being, happiness, safety, sufficiency and protection.


I am writing from Alexandria on the twelfth day of the month of Av — may God visit upon you its blessing and the blessing of all the months that follow, and may it return


for you for many years to come in which [we will witness] _the rebuilding of His temple, Amen_ —


in a state of wellbeing and not lacking for anything — praise be to God, lord of the universe — to inform you that your letter arrived, and from it, I learned of your news and wellbeing and rejoiced very much at your (favorable) circumstances. You mentioned the matter of


the letter that Rabbi Moses left with Yūsuf al-Marjānī. I asked Yūsuf about it, and he said: "The only 


letter in my possession is the one that Ibn al-Qāsh has written." So he said to me: "Take it," and I told him I would wait for your letter to arrive (with further details).


At the moment, the only news we have from the West con­cerns the barge (_qārib_) that arrived, may God bring us good


 news. As for the news of the bundle (rizma) that arrived labeled for Abū Saʿīd and his brother,


it was opened in the Dār Abū Rūḥ, and they found a qinṭār and 40 jarawī raṭls of wax inside. I was quite distressed


by this, because it does not bode well for the people (literally: “it is not a good beginning / omen for people”). In the middle of it, there was bundle of silk (_khazz_) labeled for


my lord Abū Ṣḥaq Barhūn, your partner. The wax was removed from the bundle for Abū Isḥāq


and it was repacked as it was. The elder Abū Ṣḥaq Ibrāhīm b. al-Iskandarānī then took possession of it. If a Nile boat (ushārī) arrives, 


he (Ibn al-Iskandarānī) will see that the package is loaded onto it. Whatever goods arrive for you from the luggage, I will take delivery of them and send them on to my lord Abū Ṣḥaq Barhūn.


The elder Abū l-Bishr Sulaymān is leaving tomorrow, travelling overland. I will send


the shawls with him for you, as well as the _siddur_ (prayerbook). I have already delivered the letter to my lord the _ḥazzan_ (cantor) Shela. I had


asked you to get 10 dīnārs for me from Abū Ṣḥaq with which to purchase a bale of flax for me. You did not


men­tion anything about this in your letter except to say that you would purchase a bale of flax for me. The letter that arrived 


for you (from the West?) with my lord Abū l-Bishr Sulaymān — I sent it to you with him. I am doing


even more than you asked me to with [ ] respect to the olive oil, the soap and the other items. Let me know


the prices of _shesh_ (silk) in Fustat, and also the price of lasīn (a different kind of silk), because I have a few raṭls that I would like


to send. I was going to write to Abū Zikrī Elḥanān to tell him that I haven't seen


any letters from you, but then your letter to me arrived. I would like you to buy me two uqiyyas of [...].


It should be of good quality. Then send it on. Also buy me a glazed, fired ceramic (vessel) and give it


to Elḥanan. This has to be done, as I have (already) informed you. I spoke to Salāma and rebuked him for coming back (to Alexandria).


He said that when the ships arrive, he'll return to Fustat together with the olive oil, God willing. I send you


my very best regards. Also best regards to my lord Abū Ṣḥaq Barhūn. Tell him about the bales taken delivery of from


the barge (_qārib_) of Nuʿmān — 21 bales and 9 barqalos. 


Recto - right margin


Abū Isḥaq Avraham b. al-Iskandarānī took delivery of 3 bales belonging to Yeshuʿa from [the ship] of Makhmūrī. The total comes to 24 bales and 9 barqalos. I have stacked (arranged) some of the bales and the 9 barqalos in the warehouse. Some of the bales remain (unstacked?) and I have placed them in the arasa. I have taken a receipt (ruqʿa) for 21 bales and 9 barqalos.
Among these bales, there is one bale jointly in your name and in the name of Abū al-Faraj Yeshuʿa. I have informed you of this.
Let me know in your letter if you will be going to Jerusalem. Convey my greetings to Abu al-Faraj Yeshxua and tell him about the bales.
I have taken delivery of his goods and they are with me in the warehouse. Abu al-Faraj Wahb sends you his regards. He will be joining you in Jerusalem. Abū Naṣr Dāwūd b. Naḥum sends you his regards, and all our colleagues send you their greetings. Abū al-Ḥajjāj sends you his greetings and asks that you seek out Musa b. al-Bunni and speak to him concerning the matter of the 5 dinars. He (i.e. Abū al-Ḥajjāj) has transferred to me the debt owed to him by Mūsā, but the latter has not paid me anything. Perhaps you will get it from him.
I bought 8 raṭls of silk from Sousse from Abū al-Bishr Sulaymān al-Qābisī. The price was 25 dīnārs; I paid him the price and he allowed me a discount of one-eighth of a dinar. I paid him with very good-quality dīnārs. He said that he would like you to help him and to go with him when he exchanges these dīnārs. Please go with him when he changes them and see which of them are clearly broken (bayyin al-kasr) and which are of inferior quality. Please exchange these for him; and whatever is worth taking, please (give?) him the equivalent. Please take care of this.
I hope your letter will arrive shortly. If anything is left over after (the exchange of these dīnārs) see to it that you pay the entire price after deducting the 1/8 dīnār.
I would appreciate your going to my lord the elder ʿAbd ... . and inquire whether he has sold the 3 skins of oil which were sent to cover the expenses of the two bales. If he has sold them, he should add their price to that of the six (skins of oil) belonging to Ḥusayn. Find out what sum he (i.e. ʿAbd … ) has remain­ing with him after paying the expenses/taxes (muʾūn) of the two bales so that I can pay out to him (i.e., Ḥusayn) his profit here in Alexandria. I have informed you of this.
 
