recto

I am writing to you—may God prolong the life of my lord, the illustrious Sheikh, and make
his honored position and well-being permanent and crush his enemies!—to tell you how much I long
and yearn for you. I ask God to grant that we be reunited,
in the best of circumstances through His grace and bounty. Your letter to
my lord, the illustrious Rayyis—may God make his honored position permanent!—has arrived. You mentioned there that Tamīm
had arrived with the cloves and the aromatic wood. Sar Shālōm
Ibn al-Shāmī previously wrote to you to deliver my share to my lord, Sheikh
Abū Yaʿqūb al-Ḥakīm, for he is my agent, empowered to collect this, namely
17 manns of cloves, of which he (Sar Shālōm) noted that seven were exclusively his
and that of the 10 manns and the 7 manns of aromatic wood, two thirds were mine and one
third his. Also carried with him (Tamīm) 12 Malikī dinars for expenses {alt. tr.: tolls} for the
10 manns of cloves and 7 manns of aromatic wood. Please check
the letter of Ibn Bundār, which arrived with Tamīm, examine
the shipment and take out for me what belongs to me. You wrote
to my lord, the illustrious Rayyis, concerning the silk,
which we (= I) had sent to Sheikh Abū Naṣr Ibn Shaʿyā, namely 40 pounds
of good khazz. I ask you to attend to this and to its sale, on two months’ credit,
for whatever price God, the Exalted, apportions.
Please do not withhold from me your letter, (in which you charge me) with any service or errand, 

recto, right margin
I wrote to you about Abū Saʿd b. Rashīd—may God have mercy upon him!—and what he had deposited with Sar Shālōm, namely 75 Egyptian dinars, his investment, making 300 (Malikī) dinars. You know that the orphans, two girls, are poor. Please tell his excellency, the illustrious 
recto, top margin
Rayyis—may his glory be enhanced and his esteem wax!—to do in matters of this calamity what will bring him near to God.
verso

for this will be a pleasure to me, and write in detail in it about all that I asked you. Accept 
my most cordial personal regards and please greet Sheikh Abu ʾl-Ḥasan al-Dihqān,
and tell him how much I yearn for him. And to your (paternal) uncle best greetings.

verso, address
to:

My lord, the illustrious Sheikh Abu ʾl-ʿAlā
Ṣāʿid b. Munajjā {read: Na[j]ā’},—may he rest in Eden!—the Trustee.
May God prolong his life and make his prominent position permanent!

 
from:

He who is grateful for your kindnesses, Mukhtār b. Jacob—
may he rest in Eden! 

 