Recto
Testimony that was before us—we, the undersigned witnesses—that in the middle ten-day period of the month of Tammuz of the year one thousand five hundred and twenty-nine(of the Era) of Documents, in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on the Nile River, jurisdiction of our lordour Nagid Abraham, the outstanding Rav, the mighty Hammer, Lamp of the West, Standard of the Sages,Inimitable of the Generation and its Wonder, the great Nagid, may (God) raise up his glory and enhance his honor. The ElderMunajjā al-‘Aṭṭār b. the Elder Abū Sa‘d al-‘Aṭṭār, the beloved Elder, (who) r(ests in) E(den) came before us, and said to us,“Perform a qinyan with me and testify concerning me using all the appropriate legal formulae and the expressions of certaintyand all the language of claims, write and sign, in order there would be proof and a legal claim that I havereleased Abū al-Khayr b. the Elder Abū al-Riḍā al-Naqqād ha-Levi the beloved Elder, (who) r(ests in) E(den) fromall rights, claims, oaths, vows and rider oaths, and all legal judgmentsfrom the beginning of time until now. Nothing remains for me with him—neither a claim nor a demand concerning a partnership (shirka) nor concerning a debt nor concerning a deposit nor concerning a joint enterprise (mu‘āmala) nor concerning a commenda. I have forgiven any claimassigned to me before him with a definitive, conclusive forgiveness, from a farthing up to a hundred dinars, except forthe document which I have against him for fourteen dinars, (to be paid in) installments of a dinar each month, as he testified in that formalized document. I have approved as payment the merchandise which was in the shop as the partnership (shirka) between us at that time, and I have taken this according to what they estimated for me. I have approved thatcompletely, and I may not renounce this in any occurrence or situation. I have taken upon myself the debtsof the aforementioned shop whose total is eight hundred dirhams. If it turns out to be more than that,I will be obligated in half and Abū al-Khayr will be obligated in half. If we receive what is due us from (our) working-partnersover and above nine hundred dirhams // it will be divided in halves, exactly, between us.// Both of us will help in collecting it. He hasreleased the six copper basins to the Elder Munajjā, and whatever is missing from them, half of it will be upon the Elder (A)būal-Khayr
Verso
We, the witnesses who have placed our signature at the end of this document, say that on Thursday the twenty-fourth day of the month of Tammuz of the year four thousand nine hundred and seventy-eight since the creation of the world//in Fusṭāṭ Egypt// Ḥayā bt. Makārim the S(cribe) b. Futūḥ, the wife of (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Tobias al-Rūmī the belo(ved) scribe, (who) r(ests in) E(den), whom her husband had appointed her his executrix at the time of his death concerning his two daughters, one named Leah and the otherSarah—also called Sitt al-Kull—came before us, and we performed a qinyan with her //according to that which she agreed as his executrix.// We testified concerning her using all the appropriatelegal formulae and the most certain expressions of affirmation, that she has already sent the Torah scrolls and the codicies of Jewish law which wer[e]placed with her aforementioned husband //according to that which she agreed as executrix for her husband// to (his) hon(or,) grea(tness, and) holi(ness, our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Abraham the Doctor, ha-Kohen, the Sa(ge)and the wise one, glory of the Kohanim, b. (his) hon(or,) grea(tness, and) holi(ness, our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Simḥa ha-Kohen, the honored, the beloved Elder, Segan of the Kohanim, and she has released him from all rights, claims, judgments, financial transactions  (mu‘āmalāt), oaths, vows, and rider oaths from the beginning of time until now, in a definitive, conclusive, definitive, fixed release, with nothingweakening it, nor any condition nullifying it, a release through receipt and acceptance (of what was due), for him and his heirs after him, from her and from //her daughters//after her //for whom she is executrix and from their heirs // and he owes nothing more to her nor to her daughters, neither a claim nor a demand nor an oath nor a vow nor a rider oath nor aclaim for something which one could define whatsoever, neither a deposit nor anything else, from the equivalent of a farthing up to two hundred //gold// Fusṭāṭ dinars. She has guaranteed delivery (to) her aforemention//ed// daughters of the best of that whichshall be preserved from their claims on the aforementioned Mr. Abr(aham) out of that //which// their aforementioned father left, she guaranteeddelivery therein to them of the value of a farthing up to two hundred dinars which came the …. in the aforementioned release and fulfillment of the qinyan completed with all that…. with the soundness of her reason, etc., a complete qinyan, with item, etc.and that which