This is a copy of the will of Khulla bt. Shabbat which was brought before the court, with everything
contained therein, written in the hand of Yehuda son of the scribe. We copied it
 with its plene and defectiva spelling and its witnesses letter by letter,
and word by word. Testimony that took place in our presence, we the under[s]igned, as follows:
We came into the presence of Khūlla bt. Shabbāt and she said to us, bear witness for me with all the (necessary) firm words and
types of testimony that I affirm before you that I possess one-third
of a house in the Fortress of the Candles (Qaṣr al-Shamaʿ) in partnership with my brothers, and one-third of a house next to the funduq (inn) of al-Dhahabi
in partnership with the son of her sister, and 2 2/3 of the house of the Ikshadiyya in partnership with her brothers.
She also has a ghulām (slave, business agent) who is to be sold, the proceeds to be divided equally, one-half for the upkeep of
Dammūh and the other half to remain with the court designated for someone who d[i]es impoverished
or to a person who gets detained on account of the poll tax and has not the wherewithal to extricate himself. We made to her the suggesion
of the Diadem, may his Rock [God] preserve him, "the Diadem of the Scholars," that in the synagogue of the Iraqis and in that of the
Palestinians there is a Bible codex wort[h] a certain sum. We suggested that (the money) be designated for its restoration, but she said
"No." She acquitted her brothers of all claims and demands, they being as trustworthy
as two reputable witnesses. She stated that she owes the son of her sister 7 1/2 dinars
and (another) 4 dinars. The 7 1/2 should be repaid from the sum recieved by her heirs,
[and the] 4 [di]nars from the sum (recieved by) her two sisters. She also stated that she owes her slave
2 dinars, and 6 dinars to the daughter of her brother Abū ʿAlī al-Kohen. We performed the qinyan with
her brothers that they would stand surety fort the 12 dinars …
from the sum apportioned to them in the inheritance, and peace. Yeshuʿa haKohen b. ʿAlī, may his soul be bound in the bundle of life
Yehuda b. Shlomo the scribe, may his soul dwell in prosperity and his descendants inherit the earth. This constiutes everything contained
in the aforementioned will. We compared it, and it was confirmed in the co[m]par[r]ison, letter... (end of page)
