Recto

On Friday, fourth of the month Nisan in year

4782 of the Creation of the World, by the reckoning


current in the city of Mastaura near the river


Maiandros, Namer son of Elkanah came and declared to Evdokia


daughter of Caleb: Be my wife according to the law of Moses andIsrael, and I shall serve,


cherish, maintain and support you in the manner of Jewish men


who faithfully serve and cherish their wives. I shall give you your mohar


as a virgin, a fully valid claim against my property, namely 200 zuz in silver,


making 8 1/3 dīnārs, as required by the Law.


I undertake to provide your food, clothing and upkeep and to consort with you sexually


according to the way of the world. Evdokia consented to be


his wife. This is the dowry that Evdokia the bride brought


from the house of her father Mar Caleb to that of Namer her husband:


a pair of gold earrings with a fine gold necklace, weight 6 shekels;


a small cauldron (κακκάβιν) (valued) at 1 gold piece; and a cooking pot (of the type known as) λεβέτιν, at 1 gold piece; a wash-basin (λακάνιν), a small 


pot of medium size and a copper spoon, at 1 gold piece; a veil with


silver clasp, at 2 gold pieces; a rug and a bedspread (ἀνάπλιν), at 1 gold piece;


two women's dresses, at 1 gold piece; a double-faced dress of red cotton (βαµπακερόν) 


and a white dress, at  1 gold piece; a ?palm's-breadth (χειροπάλαμον) woman's scarf,


at 2 gold pieces; two more, at 2 gold pieces; 


a woman's dress, a bag (σακούλ) for the bath, and small tablecloth (µεσάλιν), at 1 gold piece;


two (?) (χαγιέες?) and a fine woollen belt, at a gold piece; a  (?) (άνατρὶχιν?)


and three handkerchiefs, at half a gold piece. As a wedding gift


Namer the bridegroom gave Evdokia the bride a gilded bracelet


of 10 1/2 shekels; another of silver,


at 2 gold pieces; two armbands (ἀγκωνοβράχιελα), at 2 gold pieces, making


18 (eighteen) shekels; a woollen belt, at half a gold piece;


a pair of gold earrings with triple pendants (τριβολατα) and a gold ring, making


three shekels. The bride's mother gave to Evdokia


her daughter a double-faced red dress of silk (κουκουλάρικον), at one and a half gold pieces.


The sum total, including her own possessions, her wedding gifts, the mohar,


and the addition to her ketubba, makes thirty-five and one-third gold pieces.


The bride's mother also gave


her daughter the lower storey, and its exit and entrance are to the east, close to


the river; but half of the well shall belong to her brother Caleb and he,


Caleb, shall have the right to enter by the eastern gate to do


whatever he may need to do at the well.


Mercy and truth have met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.


Verso


Namer the bridegroom accepted responsibility for this marriage settlement


for himself and his heirs after him, to be secured by


the choicest of his possessions under heaven, indoors


or out, whether landed or movable property, even down to


the coat on his shoulders; it is not to have the effect of an asmakhta or


a legal formality, but is subject to the full rigour of all the enactments


of the rabbis.   We have received from the bridegroom Namer ?assurances concerning every detail


and matter of what is written and itemised on the other side


of this document in due and appropriate form (?).


Valid and effective. AQOLUTOS.


[signed] Judah son of the late Nabon; Moses son of the late Leon;


             Shelahia son of the late Joseph;


Moses son of the late Rabbi Shabbetai.

