Recto


For the lips of a priest should guard knowledge, etc.


But for thee, O Lord, do I wait; it is thou, O Lord my God, who wilt answer.


The slave Solomon b . Elijah the judge, (may he come to a) g(ood) e(nd),


to the dignity of the dear turban, our honorable, great and holy master and teacher, David Hakohen, the dear,


wise and understanding H'a've'r, son of the dignity of the dear turban, the glory


of our master and teacher Judah, the dear H'a've'r and expert judge,


the superior wise man and glory of the H'a've'ri'm, may the memory of a righteous man be a blessing.


I Inform (you) of (my) great longing to see you, your little ones and your wife,


may God protect them during your life. Now, then. When I saw


you that day in our chief's house I intended to  send


a letter with you to the august Kohen Moses and to his distinguished son,


the taxfarmer of Manu'f, In which I would offer my condolences to them,


but I was not able to get together with you; I also wanted to come to


Mall'j and to console them on this misfortune which came to them.


However, I became seriously ill, and as long as I am ill


I am prevented from (fulfilling) this commandment for this reason. You


take my place and console them and read out a letter to them


which is (enclosed) with this letter which is sent to you. My heart


is with you and with my sister Sitt al-Ri'a'sa and with her brothers


and mother. May God grant them success and protect them,


and give you sustenance. Peace be upon you and upon them.


May your peace increase as .... ... Solomon, (may) G(od) b(e) (his) h(elper).


Recto Margin


Answer quickly.


Be so


kind as


to do


it.


May your peace


increase


and not


decrease.


Amen


Selah.


Verso, Address


To the dignity of the honorable, great and holy master and teacher David the Kohen, the dear, wise and understanding H'a've'r, (may his) R(ock) p(reserve him),


son of the dignity of our master and teacher Judah the H'a've'r, glory of the H'ave'rl'm, (may his) m(emory) b(e a blessing), from


one who is grateful to him .... his slave Solomon, son of Rabbi Elijah, son of Rabbi Zekharia, (may his) s(oul) b(e) b(ound in the) b(undle of) t(he living).


An unbleached turban, a silk dress, two new dresses


Bananas, figs , grapes, watermelons, fish, cowpeas.


I'll be darned if I'll get any of this this week.

