Recto


In the name of God the Merciful and Compassionate.


I inform the exalted and glorious presence, the Ikshīl and Master of the Horses—may God prolong his life and cause


his well-being, success, protection and safety to endure, and cause his power to endure in happiness—that my son-in-law, who is called Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad


ibn ʿAbd al-Raḥmān, the merchant, has set off (to you). He has suffered the loss of a debt owed to him by some spendthrift people known as the sons of Kajja, namely Makārim, Muḥibb and Faraj.


This Makārim stood guarantor for his brother Muḥibb with regard to his part of the debt that was owed to him (my son-in-law) by them with the testimony of a group of travellers


to the land of Marīs and undertook to pay his debt for him and reclaim from him what he owes, his debts and his possessions. This is the greatest of my requests


to you. May God, the Exalted, grant me in you the fairest arbiter. I have sent him to you, please pay his debt and help him stand on his own feet in the best possible way.


You know the importance of a son-in-law for his father-in-law. If he could have a little help in his predicament, quickly without


Recto, right margin


delay, by God, to pay his debt and deal with his needs,


whatever you do would be a kindness. He is waiting for you to get back to me, and will be most grateful, if God wills.


Whatever need you have, write to me concerning it and I shall be happy to carry it out.


Whatever charity you could consider, be it much or little,


oh God, God, God, God, for this son-in-law of mine [please do], for you have an obligation to him, for my money is with your majesty, may


God cause his support to endure, [and this is] my instruction to you. Praise be to God alone. His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, His prophet, and his family, and His peace.


Verso, address, right column

The Ikshīl, Master of the Horses, vizier of the king,
Uruwī ibn Khiyākh, deputy of the king.

Verso, address, left column

Abū al-Thanāʾ Ḥāmid
al-Kanzī
