Recto


I am a companion to all who fear Thee.


To the dignity, honor, greatness and holiness of our master and teacher David ha-Kohen, the exalted H'a've'r,


the wise and understanding, (may his) Ro(ck) prese(r v e ) him; from Elijah , son of R . Zechariah [m(ay his) s(oul be) b(ound) in (the bundle of) the (living)] who loves him as he does himself.


I inform you of my great longing for you and of my having been


quiet occupied. This limited my determination and my ability to fulfill my duty toward the like of you,


especially as I do not cease thinking about it for several reasons. May God, then,


help you in religious as well as worldly affairs for His sake. And may the merit


of your father (the virtuous and honorable master, who fulfills (the commandments) and knows them well) intercede for you


as well as for us. May your blessings not cease for us. Your house is the beauty of the community,


may God give you success so that He, the exalted, may be satisfied with it, and may He also give us success for the sake of His name.


We inform you, may your strength not cease, that a young woman - her name is Bushr - a daughter of Asad


son of al-Sali'ar, the auctioneer in the bazaar of the wool-merchants, came with her mother


Nasab, daughter of Abu'I-Mans'u'r, to court, in order to marry her daughter,


the one named Bushr - a young woman who is of age - to a


Cairene. We then inquired about her and asked a man of her people who knows her - - -


Abu' al-'Ala" son of al-Nusha'diri', the silk merchant — and they said


that this young woman - being of age - was engaged to a young man.


We could not establish anything certain about their case, and what happened to them,


from which it could become clear that a connection between them no longer exists and which would therefore remove any doubt in the matter.


Our lord, therefore, may his glory be exalted, ordered that we write to our patron


a letter in which we would inform him of the matter, so that he would write us an unequivocal


letter about their affair - quickly, for her mother


mentioned that she appeared before your late father of blessed memory


and it was in your presence and in the presence of the revered colleague R. Solomon, (may his) Ro(ck) prese(rve) him,


Recto Margin


and a group (of people)


and they made a settlement


with the person who was engaged


to the young woman about eight


months ago and that they released


each other from


any right which may attach them


to each other. Be so kind then


to hurry and summon to you


this Jacob


and establish from him that he had released


his above mentioned fiancéé


and her mother; we have already established from the young woman


that she had released him.


Verso


from any right which may connect him to her, and any other condition,


and further, that she disliked his company, and that he mentioned in your presence


that he disliked her and that he was unable to support her.


[This was also] in the presence of the Sheikh Aaron and in the presence of . . . . and that they separated


by their ritual releases, and they then split off.


We likewise established from her mother that she


had released him and had absolved him. Now if these things are


remembered by you, then you can dispense with making the above mentioned Jacob appear before you


and with getting testimony about it again after their having made a settlement


in your presence. So please make all effort that he appear before you under all circumstances if the matter is as


has been described, so that you may reply quickly. After (all this I write) special greetings,


best of regards and greetings, and respect


to all our brethern, the wise and dear H'ave'ri'm -


God give them success - and to Sheikh Khalaf the Kohen, your brother (God protect him)


and to your children - best regards - and to the Sheikh R. Joseph


               and his loving son Solomon, may he arrive [soon]


Verso Margin


and to] the cantor Yeh'i'[e'l]


best regards.


Please inform him that I sent


with Abu' Nas'r Ibn Elisha


thirty dirhems to deliver to his wife,


may God compensate him. Regards to the exalted patron, our master and teacher Isaac, the wise and understanding


best regards, greetings and respect.


and to all the Holy Community


best regards, greetings and respect.


Give my regards to the exalted master R.


Jacob, Head of the Community, Elder of the Congregation


and to all the elders, may God keep them


and may your peace increase.

