Recto

Proceedings (of what) took place before us—we, the undersigned court—Thus: in the last ten-day period of the mon[th] of Shevaṭ,
of the year one thousand four hundred and seventy-one (of the Era) of Documents, in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on the Nile River, jurisdiction
of his glorious Excellency, Diadem of Beauty, his honor, greatness and holiness, our teacher and master, Inimitable of our Generation, who enlightens our way, our prince, prince
of God among us, our lord Nathaniel ha-Levi, “Israel’s chariots and horsemen”, may his name endure forever, the Elder Abū al-Rabī‘ Suleymān ha-
Kohen al-‘Aṭṭār (his) h(onor,) g(reatness, and) h(oliness) our teacher and our master Solomon ha-Kohen, the honored courtier, Segan among the Kohanim and their strength, (may his) R(ock) p(reserve him) b. [our] mighty one [(his) h(onor,) g(reatness, and) h(oliness)] our teacher and our master
Judah ha-Kohen, the honored courtier, the Sage and the wise one, Courtier of the Cohanim and their strength, Glory of the Notables, Joy of the Nesi[’u]t came before the court … in his hand was a document
claiming that our master Ḥiyya b. our master Isaac ha-Sephardi had (a claim) against the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan al-Tājir b. the Elder [Abū] Sa‘d al-Tājir
known as (I)bn Ṭībān (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Tobijah ha-Levi the beloved Elder b. (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Samuel ha-Levi the honored one (who) r(ests in) E(den,) sixty-five dinars by way of
a commenda in wheat. The stipulation between the two of them was that the profit therein would be divided in halves, exactly. Then M(r.) Solomon ha-Kohen appeared as [well,] in his hand
he had a power of attorney ratified by M(r.) Ḥiyya designating him his claimaint therein (demanding of) the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan this total amount upon his arrival from
a journey. When the two of them came together before us—we, the court—the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan al-Levi mentioned that the remainder of the aforementioned amount in his hand
after the work therein was thirty-nine dinars. When he was known to have arrived, according to the price of wheat that had been upon him
at the time he bought it, according to what he said and according to this reckoning, the reckoning of the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan al-Levi was performed, detailing everything
that had been held in a commenda in the aforementioned year, reckoning sixty dinars for every hundred dinars. Then M(r.) Solomon ha-Kohen received from
the aforementioned Abū al-Ḥasan, out of that total, thirty gold dinars in specie, which was the amount which our master, the aforementioned Ḥiyya had
borrowed from him prior to his journey, and he declared him to have paid from the assets specified above. That was according to [what]
our master Ḥiyya required in accordance with what he wished therein. Then the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan Nānū al-Tājir (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Adōnīm the beloved Elder (may his) R(ock) p(rotect him) b. (his) h(onor,) g(reatness, and) h(oliness) [(our) tea(cher) and m(aster)]
Abraham the hon(ored) courtier (who) r(ests in) E(den) received ten dina(rs) from the aforementioned amount, which was what he had advanced to our master Ḥiyya. He declared him to have pa[id]
out of the amount according to that which his signature had required. The Elder Abū al-Rabī‘ Suleymān ha-Kohen and the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan Nā[nū] came
and each of them attested in our presence to the arrival into his hand of that which is specified above, and each released the debt of the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan. They testified
thus concerning themselves. We performed a complete qinyan with each of them, effective immediately. The surplus for the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan according to that reckoning
was one dinar, according to what his reckoning guaranteed him, and according to the amount which he owed him from the loss of those assets. He brought
nine dina(rs) less a third, subtracting one dinar //from// the total of the ten dinars which the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan Nānū had received.
The balance of his share of the aforementioned loss which he was obligated to pay was eight dina[rs less] a third;
it was decided that a debt document upon the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan ha-Levi would be written therein in the name of the family of our master Ḥiyya the aforementioned Sage, the wise.
Our teacher Solomon ha-Kohen gave the Elder Abū al-Ḥasan al-Levi the document obligating him in the original assets of the commenda upon //which was// in the name of our master Ḥiyya
after he specified for him that he was still obligated in the “oath of partners” for the (funds) invested in the commenda, that upon his arrival he has the option of (receiving) its payment
or forgiving it. All that took place before us—we, the court—on the date mentioned above.
We wrote and signed what happened before us, in order that there would be a title of right in that which is attached. And enduring.
Hillel b. master Zadoq, Father of the Court (may the) m(emory of the) h(oly be) f(or a blessing)
Peraḥya b. Joseph (may his) m(emory be) f(or) e(ternal) l(ife) …
