Recto, left (page 1)

God is sufficient for me.
What his servant has sent to my master and lord Mufaḍḍal b. Abū Saʿd,
may God perpetuate his glory:
In care of the elder Yaḥyā b. Abī l-Qāsim
al-Sakhāwī, on the riding animal of Ibn al-Naffākh:
three bales of lac, the weight of each one
bale being 400 pounds;
two mixed bales, the weight of each bale
being a bahār, half of it pepper, half of it ginger;
one bale of cleaned cloves weighing
40 gross mann;
one bale of clove stalks weighing 50 mann.
Everything bears the ʿalāma Mufaḍḍal b.
Abī Saʿd.
For the elder Abū Naṣr, twin brother of my lord,
in exchange for what he had in care of Futūḥ:
a bale of pepper weighing 140 pounds,
bearing its ʿalāma.
With the aforementioned also a bale
containing three bags of cleaned clove
bearing the ʿalāma Mufaḍḍal
b. Abī Saʿd.

Recto, right (page 4)

Carried by Aḥmad b. Ḥasnūn:
a bale of cleaned clove weighing
40 gross mann
and a bale of clove stalks weighing 50 mann.
Its ʿalāma: Mufaḍḍal Ibn Abī Saʿd.
In the mismārī of Ibn Hiba: what was
sent via ʿAydhāb and the ship sank
and the cargo was recovered:
two remainders of pepper and ginger weighing
814 pounds;
a remainder of lac weighing 450 pounds;
a bale of lac, weighing 130 pounds.
Its ʿalāma: Abū Saʿd b. Munajjā.
For my lord, out of the total load
that was carried by Afḍal and Abū l-Surūr:
a remainder of small peppercorns weighing 357 pounds.
Its ʿalāma: Mufaḍḍal Ibn Abī Saʿd.
All this is sent to you carried by Rashīd the ghulām
of Ibn Hiba and Qāsim Ibn al-Qathīf.
In the care of Qāsim Ibn al-Qathīf: a bale
bound in leather and canvas, with the ʿalāma
Abū Saʿd b. Munajjā
containing ten lālas robes,
untailored and extremely refined.
Peace.

Verso, right (p. 2)

A bag for our lord Menaḥem weighing
2½ mann.
His name is written on it.
A bag for the Jew from Majorca who is
with you in Qūṣ weighing 1 mann.
Labeled "Majorcan."
A bag for the elder Makārim b.
Afḍal b. Nīnū from the elder
Ibn Walīd weighing 2 mann and 5 ?.
Labeled "Ṣayrafī."
A bag containing a precious turban of lālas,
a bukhnuq (shawl) and a white burda (robe) without
a border for our lord Menaḥem.
Marked (in Arabic characters:) Mufaddal Ibn Abi Sa'd.
 
A bag with (Chinese) rhubarb, canvassed. Abu Ί-Hasan b. 'Atiyya ("Handsome, son of Gift") sent this to Tahirie b. Ibrahim ("Pure, son of Abraham"). I instructed him to deliver everything to my lord.
 
With Mahasin ("Favors"), son of the man with the parted beard: a flask with musk, weighing 12½ mithqals. Marked: Mufaddal Ibn Abi Sa'd. Also with him a bag of odoriferous wood, weighing 1 mann; in the middle of this is a piece of cloth containing a unit of ambergris.
 
A bag with three lalas turbans, a lalas 'ardi (broad shawl), and a fine cotton robe, all marked: Abu Ί-Qasim, the son of the Physician. If Abu Ί-Qasim is in town, he should accept delivery. Otherwise, my lord should receive it.

Verso, left (p. 3)

With him also: a bale with lalas textiles packed in leather, marked: Abu Sa'd b. Mufaddal Ibn Abii (!) Sa'd, namely:
3 Volga robes
11 small lalas turbans
2 large turbans
5 broad shawls with black borders
Total 21 pieces
Cleaned lalas: 4 untailored pieces
3 large turbans
3 small turbans
3 broad shawls
Total of cleaned lalas: 13 pieces
(In the margin:) 2 harnesses of wood for the elder Abu 'I-Surur b. Masll'ah.
Grand total: 39 pieces
I instructed him to deliver everything to my lord.
 
With 'Ata' Allah b. 'Abd al-Khaliq a bale with cleaned clove, weighing 52½ mann. Marked: Abu Sa'd b. Mufaddal Ibn Abu Sa'd.
