Recto, left (p. 1)

(To) M. Mufaḍḍal Ibn Abī Saʿd ("Excellent, son of Fortunate"). God is sufficient for me.
These items have been sent by your servant to my lord—
may God make permanent his honored position.
With the sheikh Yahya b. Abi Ί-Qasim
al-Sakhāwī in the "mount" of Ibn al-Naffakh ("Hornist," "Blower of the Horn"):
3 bales with lac, each weighing
400 pounds
2 bales, "mixed,"
one half pepper and the other ginger, each weighing 1 bahar
1 bale cleaned clove, weighing
40 gross mann
1 bale clove stalks, weighing 50 mann
Everything is marked: Mufaḍḍal Ibn
Abī Saʿd.
For the elder Abu Nasr, the twin brother of my lord,
as an equivalent of what was due him, with Futūḥ
a bale of pepper weighing 140 pounds.
Marked ... 
With the same a bale
containing three bags of cleaned clove,
marked: Mufaḍḍal
Ibn Abī Saʿd.

Recto, right (p. 4)

With Aḥmad b. Ḥasnūn 
a bale with cleaned clove, weighing 
40 gross mann, 
and a bale with clove stalks, weighing 50 mann. 
Marked: Mufaḍḍal Ibn Abī Saʿd.
In the "nailformed" (boat) of Ibn Hiba what had been
sent via ʿAydhāb, when the ship sank
and the cargo was partially saved:
2 remainders from the pepper and ginger, weighing
814 pounds
a remainder of lac, weighing 450 pounds
a bale of lac, weighing 130 pounds.
Marked: Abū Saʿd b. Munajjā.
For my lord, out of the total load
carried by Afḍal and Abū l-Surūr:
a remainder of pepper weighing 357 pounds,
marked Mufaḍḍal Ibn Abī Saʿd.
All this is sent to you with Rashīd, the servant
of Ibn Hiba and Qāsim Ibn al-Qathīf.
Also with Qāsim Ibn al-Qathīf
a bale packed in leather and canvas, marked
Abū Saʿd b. Munajjā,
containing ten lālas robes,
untailored and of utmost fineness.
And peace.

Verso, right (p. 2)

For the elder Abu Na~r, the twin brother 9 of my lord, as an equivalent of what was due him, with Futii.Q.10 a bale of pepper weighing 140 pounds. Marked .... 11 3 With the same a bale contammg three bags of cleaned clove, marked: Mufaddal Ibn Abi Sa'd. 4 A bag12 for our lord Menal,iem weighing 2 1/2 mann. His name is written on it. 5 A bag for the Jew from Majorca 13 who is with you in Qii~, weighing 1 mann. Mayurqi is written on it. 6 A bag for the elder Makarim ("Nobility") b. Mufadc;lal b. Niinii 14 from the elder Ibn Walid, weighing 2 and 5 mann. (Written on it in another hand:) ",Sayrafi."15 7 A bag containing a precious turban made of !alas (fine red silk), a bukhnuq (shawl), and a white burda (robe) without a border for our lord Menabem. Marked (in Arabic characters:) Mufac;lc;lal Ibn Abi Sa'd. 8 A bag with (Chinese) rhubarb, canvassed. Abu 'l-I:Iasan b. 'A~iyya ("Handsome, son of Gift") sent this to Tahir 16 b. Ibrahim ("Pure, son of Abraham"). I instructed him17 to deliver everything to my lord. 9 With Mal;i.asin ("Favors"), son of the man with the parted beard: a flask with musk, weighing r2 1/2 mithqals. Marked: Mufac;lc;lal Ibn Abi Sa'd. Also with him a bag of odoriferous wood, weighing r mann; in the middle of this is a piece of cloth containing a unit18 of ambergris. IO A bag with three la.las turbans, a la.las 'ar¢i (broad shawl), and a fine cotton robe, all marked: Abu '1-Qasim, the son of the Physician.19 If Abu '1-Qasim is in town, he should accept delivery. Otherwise, my lord should receive it. II With him also: a bale with la.las textiles packed in leather, marked: Abu Sa'd b. Mufac;l<;lal Ibn Abu (!) Sa'd, namely: 3 Volga20 robes u small lalas turbans 2 large turbans 5 broad shawls with black borders Total 21 pieces 
Cleaned la.las: 4 untailored pieces21 3 large turbans 3 small turbans 3 broad shawls Total of cleaned la.las: 13 pieces (In the margin:) 2 harnesses22 of wood for the elder Abu '1-Suriir b. Ma~li'a}].. 28 Grand total: 39 pieces24 I instructed him to deliver everything to my lord.25 12 With 'Ata' Allah b. 'Abd al-Khaliq26 a bale with cleaned clove, weighing 52 1/2 mann. Marked: Abii Sa'd b. Mufac;lc;lal Ibn Abu Sa'd. 

Verso, left (p. 3)