Page a


Main Points of the Will


of Wuḥsha, the Broker.


To my brother shall be given one hundred dinars


from the objects given to me as security,


as well as a pair of fiver rings and a Dabīqī Robe.


To my sister—fifty dinars from the objects given as security,


as well as a mourning dress, a half-mantle,  and a head cover.


To the daughter of my paternal uncle—five dinars, a cloak,


a half-mantle, a pair of Sempervivum (Houseleek) rings, a... 


of silver, a woman's cap, the bed on which I lie,


but not the carpets. 


To my sister Ṣibāḥ—ten dinars. 


For the cemetery—twenty five dinars.


For the synagogues in Old Cairo—twenty dinars.


For the synagogues of Dammūh and (New) Cairo five dinars,


(Added in smaller script) for the purchase of oil for study.


 
Page b


To the poor of Old Cairo twenty dinars shall be given.


To Joseph's wife five dinars shall be given.


To each of her two brothers five dinars shall be given.


To an orphan girl in (New) Cairo, a relative of mine, two dinars shall be given.  


All this shall be paid from the debts


against which securities have been given and which are listed in three


documents written in Arabic letters, the securities, as well


as the debts. All the aforementioned


to whom I have willed something shall receive payment from the securities,


as mentioned before. The remaining


securities shall be added to


the cash in gold which I possess, namely three hundred dinars


which are ready with me and sixty seven dinars


deposited with Lady Ikhtiyar,


in addition to all I possess  in cash and kind, in rugs


and carpets. All this shall be kept for my son on conditions


I shall mention, and, if he remains alive and attains maturity, 


 
Page c


shall be handed over to him. If, however, God forbid, death


overtakes him before, one half of all this shall be given to the synagogues


in Old Cairo and to the poor in equal halves.


The other half shall be divided between my heirs in equal shares,


to wit, my brother, my sisters, and the daughters (corrected, it seems, to: daughter) of my paternal uncle.


To his (namely, the boy's,) father, Ḥassūn of Ascalon,


not one penny shall be given, except that two promissory notes


concerning a debt of eighty dinars which he owes me, will be handed over to him


in case my son meets his predestined death, in addition to ten


dinars out of the estate of the boy. But the rest is


for the synagogues and the poor in equal shares,


namely one half, and the other half for my family, as I have explained


before.  


The following shall be expended on my funeral


and on my "shrouds": fifty dinars, to be taken from the cash available.


The following shall be bought for me:


A Dabīqī garment for six d., a cloack for six d.,


a Ṭalī 23 cap for two d., a hood for six d.,


a Dabīqī kerchief for two d., a veil for two d.,


 
Page d


A Tustarī cover for six to seven dinars,


and a coffin. Furthermore, the payment for the pallbearers and all other  expenses for me


until I reach my grave and the tomb


will be built. The remainder of the fifty dinars shall be distributed


to the cantors who will walk behind my coffin, to each


according to his rank and excellence.  


What is owed to me and what I owe to others has been specified  by me in the documents


written in Arabic letters. Action shall be taken accordingly.  


The melammēd Rabbī Moses shall be taken to him and shall teach him


the Bible and the prayer book to the degree it is appropriate that he should know them.


The teacher shall be given a blanket and a sleeping carpet so that he can


stay with him. He shall receive from


the boy's estate every week five dirhams


according to the judgment of the orphans' court and the elders. 


All that is written in the Arabic documents


has been dictated and authorized by me. They were written by the elder


Abū Manṣūr, the son of Ayyūb (Job) and someone else.


Action shall be taken in accordance with it.


 