IN (YOUR) NAME, O MERCI(FUL).
 
I am writing these lines to my lord, the illustrious elder—may God prolong your life and make permanent your exaltedness and high position—to inform you that the Kohen al-FasI1 sent to me a bar of gold for you from Fez with the notification that he sold civet perfume for you for 7½ and ⅛ Andalusian mithqals. He asked me to sell the gold in Almeria and to buy silk with the proceeds. However, I did not think that this was the right thing to do, and decided to leave the gold as it was sent to me. Now, God in his mercy decreed my safe arrival, whereupon I sent it to you with Binyam al-Rashidi, the perfumer. Kindly compose my mind by the acknowledgment of its arrival. When I come, I shall, God willing, deliver the letter addressed to you in person.
 
One of the friends of the aforementioned Kohen sent a quantity of ambergris with me and asked me to sell it through you; you are to buy me good "fivers" of musk for the money—may I never be deprived of you and never miss you. The weight of the ambergris is 225 dirhems, together with the piece of cloth and the canvas. It will be brought to you by my brother Abu Ί-Barakat. As soon as you take delivery, sell it without any slackness or delay for whatever price God grants and apportions.
 
Accept from me the best of greetings, and may the welfare of my lord continue to increase forever. As soon as the ambergris is sold, buy "fivers" of good musk with the money. If I can do anything for you, please honor me with the task. Do not be offended by the form of these lines. I wrote them on the Eve of the Sabbath, after having taken my bath. Therefore, please—may God honor you—excuse me and remove any blame from me. And Peace! 
(Address, written upside down, as usual:)
To Misr (Fustat), may God protect it, to my lord, the illustrious elder Abu Sa'id al-'Afṣī—may God prolong his life and make permanent his honored position and prosperity. His grateful Abu Ί-Hasan, son of Khulayf, the Alexandrian—m{ay he rest in) p(eace!)