Recto
The Elders, the Kohanim, Rāḍī and Mufaḍḍal came (before us,) and Mufaḍḍal brought a document from the court of the (Muslim) notableto the seat of his glorious excellency, Diadem of Beauty, our teacher and our master, our lord Abraham the great Nagidthe outstanding Rav, may his name endure forever, describing with verification what proceeded between the aforementioned (individuals).A witness came—though he was a relative—stating that it was resolved between them without judgment or qinyan,that Rāḍī would pay him the aforementioned amount mentioned in the Arabic document, a dinar and a half each month.Mufaḍḍal said a number of times, “I have settled (the matter), and I renounced any proceedings in that aforementioned place (court),regarding a settlement or distribution, and so forth.” Mufaḍḍal demanded thatRāḍī pay him a dinar, (the total) amount (of the partnership) in silver being one thousand four hundred dirhams, payment of that to beupon request and demand. Then he (Rāḍī) challenged him, and he had an Islamic document. Rāḍī responded to him, “If  this amount had been our sole responsibility, this amount would have been the balance of my claim. However, we were three partners—he and Ṭāhir and I—and neither Ṭāhir nor I had enough to pay it, and Mufḍḍal did not want to deal withṬāhir, nor did he (Ṭāhir) deal with him (Mufaḍḍal), nor did he (Mufaḍḍal) lend to him (Ṭāhir), but I myself received this amount from him (Mufaḍḍal), and an Islamic document was written for me concerning Ṭāhir by his agent. And we paid the remaining debts from that amount incumbent upon us.I paid it and Mufaḍḍal received the amount I paid in full in hides from the tannery, their worth roughlythe 17, more or less—I am unable to verify its exact amount—and the balance of three remained as our responsibility.Mufaḍḍal responded: “Out of all I have mentioned, none of the aforementioned hides nor any others have reached me, nor have I received anything from the amount of this document, which is the balance in your possession up till now.” We wrote down that which proceededin this court between the two of them, in order that it would be a title of right and proof. This took place in the middle ten-day periodof the month of Adar II of the year 1543 of (the Era of) Documents, in the town of Mīnyat Ziftā the noble,[jurisdiction of ] our [lord,] our Nagid, our master Abraham, the great Rav, may he live forever, amen, (for) eternity, selah.[…] … […][…] Gamliel b. Simḥa (whose) s(oul is at) r(est)