Recto

He will rebuild His sanctuary and His hall. He will return His Glory to His throne. He will look into the misery
of His people, hasten their good news, make them free, return them to their land
and plant them in their inherited possession. In the lifetime of his Glory, Highness, Holiness our Lord
and Master, our Lord, the Great nāsī /ᶜAnan/ Yedidya, the chief of the diaspora of all Israel,
and in the lifetime of all this holy community, the possession of the Lord, the plantation of the Lord for the glory,
Say: Amen. On this day, which is day so-and-so of the week, day so-and-so
of the month so-and-so, of the year one thousand three hundred ninety two
years of the era of the Greeks, in the city so-and-so, on this day came so-and-so, the learned
and wise one, everyone [should be described] according to his rank, it should be written in his ketubba if he is
an elder or a young man, and declared before the elders who sign below
in this ketubba, and said to them: Be my witnesses and perform with me the qinyan,
write and sign about me, that with all rights [I am declaring before you, and] I am
not coerced, not mistaken, not in error, not forced and not intoxicated
with wine, but with full physical faculties and full resolve, according to my will, aspiration of my soul
and wish that I married, performed the qinyan and betrothed such-and-such daughter of so-and-so. If
she is a virgin write: The young girl, the virgin, and if she is a widow
or a divorcee: To be my wife in purity and holiness, by mohar,
document, witnesses and sexual intercourse, according to the command- ment of Moses, the man of God,
peace upon him, and the custom of Israel the pure, holy
and suitable ones. And I will dress, clothe, sustain, respect and esteem
her, and I will fulfil all her legitimate needs and desires to the best
of my strength and possibilities, and I will be with her, with truth, justice, love, affection
and compassion, I will not afflict her, appeal against her or oppress her, and I will not diminish
her food, clothes and sexual intercourse like children of Israel who feed, support,
dress, clothe, esteem and respect their
pure wives, and do all they owe them in faithfulness and honesty.
And the mohar that I stipulated and allocated for her is fifty coins of silver, the mohar
of her virginity, and if she is not a virgin, twenty five coins of silver

Verso

the mohar of her non-virginity. I also added for her that many dinars
good, weighed, full, in the weight of ten, seven. I have advanced
her that much from them, in the hand of so-and-so son of so-and-so. As for the fifty [silver coins] I will give them
to her on that day, at the time of her wedding. And there will remain incumbent upon me and upon my estate
after me that many good, weighed, full dinars
of the delayed payment as a true debt. And if he does not advance anything, [he writes] And I also
added for her that many delayed dinars, a true, strong and binding debt.
And such-and-such daughter of [so-and-so, the] bride heard the words of this so-and-so son of
so-and-so, the groom, and wanted, with [full] resolve, … without coercion,
to be married to him, to be his help, his wife and companion in purity
holiness and awe, to obey, esteem, respect
and help him, and to do in his house all that the pure daughters of Israel
do in the house of their husbands, and to behave towards him with love, compassion
honesty, faithfulness and purity of manners, to be under his dominion
and to have her desire directed towards him. And she appointed for herself an agent, so-and-so son of so-and-so, for this purpose.
And so-and-so son of so-and-so and so-and-so son of so-and-so came and said: We are witnesses of such-and-such
daughter of so-and-so, the bride fit to fulfil what has been mentioned, that she wanted in the qinyan
to appoint as her agent so-and-so son of so-and-so, to take care of the affairs of her marriage to so-and-so son of so-and-so,
the groom, with the mohar mentioned above, and that she accepted and took upon
herself all the conditions that they will stipulate between themselves, and write in her ketubba.
And so-and-so, the agent, came and declared before the elders, and testified about [himself]
according to his will, and with full resolve, that he married such-and-such, the virgin, to so-and-so [son of so-and-so],
with the mohar mentioned above, which is that much, to be his wife, [help]
and companion, and that he took, accepted the payment, cleared and freed so-and-so, the groom, from the advanced payment. And
so-and-so son of so-and-so was cleared from it. And these are the belongings that such-and-such daughter of so-and-so brought
from the house of her father to the house of her husband so-and-so son of so-and-so. From the gold ...
