Recto


In your name, You Merciful.


To the high Seat of our Lord the Nagid, may his splendor be exalted and his honor great.


The maidservant


the wife of Basīr the bellmaker kisses the ground and submits that she has on her neck

 

three children because her husband was completely infatuated with (life on) the mountain with


al-Kūrānī, in vain and to no purpose, a place where there is no Torah,


no prayer and no mention of God's name in truth.


He goes up the mountain and mingles with the mendicants,


although these have only the semblance, but not the essence, of religion. The maidservant


is afraid there may be there some bad man who may induce her husband to forsake


the Jewish Faith, taking with him the three children.


The maidservant almost perishes because of her solitude and her search


after food for the little ones. It is her wish


that our Master go after her husband and take the matter up with him according to his unfailing


wisdom, and what the maidservant entreats him to do is not


beyond his power nor the high degree of his influence.


 
Verso


attending regularly morning, afternoon and evening prayers,


and listening to the words of the Torah, but he should not occupy himself with useless


things. Furthermore, he presses the maidservant


to sell their house, to leave the Jewish community


and to stay on the mountain, (which would mean that) the little ones would cease


to study the Torah. (It would be helpful) if our Lord


gave orders to the maidservant in that matter and instructed her


concerning it, for his wisdom is unfailing. And Peace.


Our Lord—may God prolong his life—is in charge of a vast region;


thus his high aspiration could not fail to hinder


the above mentioned from going up the mountain and to induce him to attend


 
Verso, right margin
 


the synagogue and to occupy himself


with the upkeep of the family.


N. B. Our Lord has promised the little one


a medicine for the ear, for he suffers 


from it. There is no harm in trying it out,


seeing that even the barber is playing with it


without experience. May God have mercy!


 