Recto
In (Your) na(me,) O Mer(ciful One.)The witnesses whose names are specified in this report testified that Ya‘qūb b. Joseph and Dā’ūd and Ṣedaqa, sons of Ṣemaḥ b. Dā’ūd al-Raqqī personally …and their names and their family-names; Ya‘qūb b. Joseph brought them on Monday on the eighthof the month of Ramaḍān, that they would record and testify to all that which proceeded between him and between Dā’ūd and Ṣedaqathese brothers, the sons of Ṣemaḥ, as a partnership (shirka) between them, for a dispute broke out between them, and when these brothers, Dā’ūd and Ṣemaḥ, appeared at the appearance of witnesses, this Ya‘qūb b. Joseph began and said to them, “Know that I have not called you today to these (people) to a court judgmentbut rather I have called you to testify. So testify to that which proceeded between us in terms of oral statementsand admissions, and record that for us, from the oral statements that we are acting deliberately and intentionally in accordance with the first (thing) that Ya‘qūb said to these two brothers, Dā’ūd and Ṣedaqa, ‘I will swear before you, by God, great and mighty, and by His Torah, and by all Israel, concerning allyour questions, if you correctly report that which God, great and mighty, knows, with neither falsehood norconcealment nor fear nor bias, since it would not help you with me, for I am not lost toyour judgment after today.’” Then the oath was repeated for them … then he returnedand the brothers responded together, saying, “Yes, we accept the oath upon ourselves. Weare only speaking the truth and the facts which God, great and mighty, knows.” Then he (Ya‘qūb) said, “Was it not before your (re)payment of that which I paid to the merchants, which I found with you!” The two of them said,“Yes.” Then he said to them, “Did you have the profit, (my) dear, to which I am entitled, becauseI am concerned.” They said, “No, we don’t have anything of yours, (my) dear.” But indeed I found (something)for myself (therein). Then I pressed upon Ṣedaqa, the younger brother, and said to him, “Beforeyour brother’s arrival, when you came from the road and you presented your alibi, did I take something from you or (even) demand from you something or (even) a promise, (my) dear?” Ṣedaqa said, “No.” “Then, by God, testifyabout him concerning all that he said.” Then he said to Bishr, “When you showed up, something (that is, a business arrangement) proceeded between you and meas we mentioned.” And he responded, saying, “As God is my witness, I never heard from you even on a single day—not before, not after—concerning this situation.” //And he said, “No.”// Then he said to both the brothers, “Are you notwith … I sold the merchandise with which I was involved, ‘eating of the (Paschal sacrifice)’?” … for it, a final sale, not completing the total, and I spent the funds upon myself in […]… since … he did not … me the way of …spent for the business. I assignedsuch (and such) your business, and I did not wish to take any of the merchandise upon myself.” The two of them said, “Yes,” acknowledging before you all that which I said. Then he said to them, “Have I not opened the store for you, by the eyeof great and mighty God?” I said to you, “I owe you nothing further. Ask me for my maintenance, but beyond that,I will not use my high position for any sort of help that you that you might need.” You said,“We don’t have (the money for the re-)payment, nor (can) we complete anything without your sitting (and working) with us.” And indeed, you harassed meuntil I granted your wish and sat with you as a partner, such that I (would receive) half of (what) we (received), may God give us success, and the two of you (would receive) the (other) half.” Then he said to them, “After a month elapsed, did I not see that your situation was good, (yet) I was not compensated. So I gathered before you all the Elders and we wrote a detailed description between us. We testifiedto all the stipulations which were in that description. And indeed, that (very) night you invalidated it with your statement—you, O Ṣedaqa! If you did not want the produce and the keys, then I will work in (times of) trouble and pestiliencefor myself (and not for the partnership)—though I wanted you to have the keys and the produce.’” And the two of them said, “Yes.” Then he said to them, “Concerning what I did during whole period in terms of buying and selling—does it go into thebig and small scale, or do I receive food as payment or a measure of produce to be taken to the money-changer, or also … or an error happened between us and between the money-changer and a business agent and an agent in the payment or a fraction of it.The two of them said, “No.” Then he said, “Concerning that which we purchased and sold from the first day (of the partnership), did we sell comethingat a loss?” He said, “No—rather, we did so for a profit.” Then he said to them, “Did I take some of the profit from the store other than ten dina(rs) in addition to whatever was established in the detailed description—which was (itself) a (single) din(ar)? They took it each Friday and divided it—half for me and half for you—for a period of 15 months.” And he said, “Further,other than that which I mentioned—that is the ten din(ars) and a half—the rest of the profit of the store is for you each Friday.” Then he said to them, “Tell me that there is a going concern in the store with what I paid—four thousand din(ars)! How can one not suggest that there will be an equivalent amount of profit! I would like the rest of the profit, and thatwhich I claimed from you (in) this joint enterprise (mu‘āmala) for safekeeping.’” The two of them responded and said, “O assembly of Elders, a store from which thirty din(ars) comes every month for our debts, may he claim profitsmore than this amount therefrom since he is this Ya‘qūb?” The witnesses present said, “Record concerning them and preserve (this)testimony, with all the decisions in //that which// I examined them. Testify to me therein in your presence, and record the testimony. When he demanded the testimony from us, we testified and gave it to him as a valid proof from today onward.Mubashir b. Fahīd (who) r(ests in) E(den)     Maṣliaḥ b. Zechariah (whose) s(oul is at) r(est).
Blessing around Mubashir’s name: (unintelligible)