Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
The letter of your honour, my lord, the Master of the Horses—may God prolong his life and cause
his support, exaltation, supremacy, resplendence andpower to endure and suppress in abject humility
all his enviers and enemies—has arrived. As for what you have said with regard to the service of the king, we are all
his servants and slaves of the crown (i.e., his subjects). As for your saying that the ships conveying
the horses have stopped, I was intending to (send them) until the order of the ruler, may God make his reign eternal, reached me
by the hand of his brother, the governor of our land, together with a letter to the king informing him (the king) that if he (the king) needed
an army, he (the ruler) would send it to him, but he (the ruler) has prohibited me from sending to you
the first instalment of the horses until these messengers (i.e., my slave boy and the slave boy of the ruler) arrive (at the king). For the slave boy of the ruler has set off together
with my slave boy to the king. Please, please allow them passage, after showing them due honour and respect,
to the king, and request him in your letter not to delaythem for a single hour,
for the army will indeed wait for only the arrival of themessengers who have travelled to you.
Jajrī will speak with you, together with Kabān, concerning what they have seen. Kabān has visited
the governor of Qūṣ and heard what he said. He (Kabān) will meet you and tell you in person what he witnessed.
The full instruction (for you) is that you emphasise to the king that he should not make
the servants stay. You know that I say all this only
in the interest of the king. I am his slave and servant. Ihave sent you a mare of excellent quality
from my horses for your personal benefit by the hand of my slave boy Yaḥyā. Be so kind as to accept it. Whatever need you have,

Recto, margin

you would please me by allowing me to carry it out. Praise be to God alone and blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, the prophet, and his family, and may He save (them). My sufficiency is God. What an excellent keeper is He!

Verso, address, right column

To the brother, Master of the Horses,
the governor of Ibrīm and the land of Nobadia,
may God cause to endure his good health.

Verso, address, left column

From the prosperous, auspicious and most gracious commander,
Victor of the Religion, Sword of the Commander of the Faithful,
Abū Manṣūr Muḥammad, son of the sincere commander Crescent
of the Dynasty (Hilāl al-Dawla), our elder Treasure of the Religion (Kanz al-Dīn).
