Recto
Joseph b. Ḥassān (al-)Mahdawī     The debt was (two) dina(rs) as a (complete) debt     Abū al-Ḥasan remained      Kislev and Ṭevet      He was not obligated in an oathProceedings (of what) took place before us—we, the undersigned. Thus: in the month of Marḥeshvan of the year one thousand fou[r]hundred and fifty-five (of the Era) of Documents in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, the jurisdiction of our lord Samuel the great Nag[id,]may his name endure forever, there proceeded a partnership (shirka) between Khalaf b. Abū al-Ḥasan al-Damsīsī and Joseph b. Ḥassān a[l-]Mahdawī, when they went to Upper Egypt, in the production of purple dye. The two of separated from (their partnership)under circumstances which would take a long time to relate, the end of which is that each of them performed a qinyan with his fellow using the most certain stipulations of qinyan,with the formula “effective immediately”, nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions, that he has released him from all claims and thedemands and the obligations and responsibilities, from the beginning of time up till now; and from all types of vows,grave and simple, even ḥerem setam and rider (oaths). No claim remains for either of them with the otherwhatsoever, except for two dinars which remains owned by Joseph b. Ḥassān tor the aforementioned Khalaf b. Abū al-Ḥasan fromthe balance of this partnership (shirka) as a complete debt and an outstanding loan, an obligatory debt and a binding claim against this Joseph b. Ḥassānand upon his heirs, for this Khalaf and for his heirs after him. We, the undersigned, performed a qinyan with this Joseph b. Ḥassān and this Khalaf b. Abū al-Ḥasan, a complete and weighty qinyan, with an item suitable for doing so, effective immediately,in accordance with his intention and without any sort of duress at all, nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions, that he owes and is indebted to him for good, weighed specie,to (be paid) to this Khalaf, two dinars’ exactly, as a complete obligation and an outstanding loan. He will pay therefrom one dinar in the month of Kislev following (the month of) Marḥeshvan dated above, and in the month of Ṭevet following it, the other dinar.When Ṭevet ends, if something out of the two dinars remains with him (Joseph), he shall be obligated for a sum equivalent to that still unpaidas a religious endowment for the poor, as a gift for them, effective immediately. He will not give a single dirham from these […] withoutrecording it on the back of th[is do]cument. If he (Joseph) claims having paid some of this, and it is not fixed on the back of this document, then his claim therein will be ignored, and the words of this Khalaf his counterparty shall be considered tr[ustworthy] in that which he says concerningwhat remains for him from (the total debt mentioned) in this document, and if he demands all of it, he does not have to take any oath whatsoever therein,even ḥerem setam, or a rider oath. Then, after effecting the qinyan from the two of them, ev//erything//we outlined we confirmed in order that it would be a title of right and proof from this day forward. Proper and clear and enduring Nathan ha-Kohen b. Solomon ha-Kohen (who) r(ests in) E(den) Nathan b. Samuel the Ḥaver  (may his) m(emory be) f(or a blessing) 
Blessing above and below Nathan ha-Kohen’s name: … (unintelligible)
Verso
eight and a half,         received into the hand of Khalaf //due me// for the gain from the total described therein, he has        24 dirhamsof silver, nine and a half                        …                          he received everything described therein, no claim remains                          therein whatsoever for Khalaf b. Abū al-Ḥasan al-Damsīsī                            except for the release which he had therein. This                            … did not remain. This was written in the month of                           Tammuz 1455 in Fusṭāṭ, in order that it would be a title of right.                         Nathan ha-Kohen b. Solomon ha-Kohen (who) r(ests in) E(den)                          Ḥiyya b. Isaac (who) r(ests in) E(den)     Mevorakh … […]