Recto


In Your Name, Oh Merciful!. 


Do not ask--my lord and master, the illustrious, noble benefactor 


the doyen of the House of David and the Sharif of the Jewish community 


the great prince, fortress, tower, Prince of the Diaspora 


of Israel; his h(onour), his g(reatness), his holiness) our master and l(ord) Solomon, may God exalt the throne 


of his rule and grant him his wishes and desires in eternity- -


-what happened to your servant (....) at the time when he arrived


 in this country, after he had been in danger from the Tatars 


three times. The last was that they arrived on the morning of the Fast, 


when we were in al- ʿImrāniyya. They remained outside the town killing 


everybody who was on his way to or from the town, while we stayed in the synagogue waiting for what 


the enemy would do from hour to hour. Indeed, God had mercy upon us and they went away from us. 


When night had fallen, we tried to get to the mountain, still without having eaten. However, we did not 


find the way. Thus we passed the night under the hedge of an orchard 


right until morning, when we tried again to reach the mountain. However a s they came 


between us and the mountain, we turned back to get to the farm; but saw on our 


way fifty riders and when we tried another route, we saw on it 


about a hundred. I and those who were with me said the confession of sins, for we were sure 


to be killed. However God put into my heart to cross over to hedge of 


raspberry- a thick one, and I took cover under it, I and the boy; 


the Tatars went by that hedge, twenty five 


riders of them; had one of them stretched forth his whip, it would have reached 


us. We remained there till noon, when they rode away from 


that vicinity and went up to the mountain, where we remained eight 


days, eating the leaves of oak-trees and old bread. Finally 


we went down finding the country full of dead. When we arrived, 


we learnt that in that night rumour spread that we had been killed. 


But God helped, had mèrcy and saved us. However, the fact 


that I had not the privilege to see you was as though I was killed and that I 


arrived and did not find you. May God unite us as he has separated us. 


 