Recto

In your name, O Merciful One.

‘Great peace have those that love your Law; nothing can make them stumble’ (Pss 119:165).


Good greetings from the good Lord who, from his goodness, spreads good upon the world and blessings


like rivers. May all of them whirl about the head of the honourable,  great, holy, our master and teacher Aaron the Ḥaver


and all who are connected with him. May they accept greetings from me and from the people around me, from my friends [and from]


my relatives. May our God also bring together the scattered people of Judah and Israel, to lead them up to the temple


of His holiness, ‘to gaze upon the delightfulness of the Lord and to contemplate His temple’ (Pss 27:4)


Accept greetings from me, Sa‘d, and I am letting you know that my  soul longs


to see your face and to gaze upon your honour. May the Holy One, blessed be He, not […]


And the yoke prevents me from going to you. And the Lord, blessed be He, tests hearts.


May the Holy One, blessed be He, let me soon look upon your face.  […]


I would not have ceased my constant writing to you except we heard  that [you had been killed by]


the enemy. And I was sad about this news. But subsequently I have  heard that you are


alive [and so] I have written this letter. I implore you to reply to me


and let me know what you are up to and whether you have any needs  and how you are. And I


and the members of my household are well: my heart is free from all  cares except that caused by your distance


from me. And I am informing you that your wife suffers great distress  with your children.


You’ve abandoned [them] these past twenty-three years and have  shown no desire to see them.


Why do you act in this way towards your wife and your sons? You  should consider what to do about


your children. You said: ‘Inform me about the water’.


The Nile has already flooded and is at peace. As for the [price of] bread: twelve pounds for a silver [dirham]. And a garden of the Lord is


the land of Egypt. And you said that you were ill. The Lord, blessed be He, grant you a complete recovery and […]


Right Margin

[…]
daughter […]
another. Greetings
from me, Sa‘d
and from your daughter.
And greetings.
And from your wife
and…

Verso

1. Let this letter reach Seleucia, to the honourable
2. master and teacher Aaron the Ḥaver, to the house of
3. Shabbetay by the synagogue.
From me, Sa‘d,
your father-in-law.
