Recto


… Dhukhr al-Mulk Kawkab al-Dawla wa-Sadīduhā Abū Manṣūr Bakhtiyār the commander (?), may God make his support eternal,


your correspondence regarding eliminating the obstruction of his sugar, which is at the refinery 


in Jawjar. You are deputized over those who have a duty to pay kharāj (tax) to him


on it (the sugarcane), and you are entrusted with the kharāj that they owe on the refining of sugarcane and taro


and the like, until they pay it (in full). We are issuing an order to you with regard to all this


(commanding) what must be done about it. We will report to him (the amīr), and we will be reinstated in his gratitude for us.


          As for the sugarcane, you must allow the men of my lord


the aforementioned lofty official (amīr muntakhab, referring to Dhukhr al-Mulk?), may God make his support eternal, to collect it and dispose of it


as he (the amīr) sees fit; therefore, do not allow the landholders (holders of an iqṭāʿ) to prevent this (your collecting the sugar) 


in any way, for any reason. Report to us about what produce is owed to them (the muqṭāʿīn/landholders) so that we can decide


together with him (the amīr) concerning the offsetting (i.e., tax deduction) of their produce/income from it. As for what he (the amīr) is owed of the remainder of what is taxable


due to extraction (of tax) from the inhabitants of Jawjar, it was decided with the amīr to write a document for Muslim, our ghulām, 


delegating authority (to the ghulām) over those to whom the remaining sum adheres (i.e., who owe it), so that they pay it to him and deduct


its income (i.e., what the muqṭāʿ is owed) from it.         As for the kharāj contract that is owed on pressing cane, 


taro and the like, you must meet with the bureaucrat/official of the district about the contract of


this kharāj and report on it to us (on what it says and what its wording is), so that I can come to an agreement with him regarding its execution.  


Know this, may God be your support, and execute it according to what is required, and report to us on what is happening near you


regarding it, if God wills. Written on the second day of Jumāda II.


Praise be to God alone. May God pray for our lord Muḥammad, for his messenger, and for his ancestors, the pure imāms,


and save them.    God is sufficient for us; what an excellent keeper is he.


Insertion (by way of elaboration) between lines 13 and 14


Our lord the amīr Surūr al-Malikī entrusted/ordered our ghulām to go forth and order


the aforementioned (muqṭaʿīn) to undertake (to pay) this remainder, and to forward on (to the amīr) the kharāj due on it.


Therefore he empowered him in this matter and supported him in discharging the situation expeditiously. 

