Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
The slave of my honourable lord, the Ikshīl and vizier of the king—may God prolong his life and cause his support,
his elevation, his loftiness, his magnificence and his power to endure, and suppress his haters and his enemies—the slave
kisses the ground and what he wishes him to know is that Merki says, “I shall send the muzzles immediately.
I shall make all of the slaves of the Master of the Horses grateful (for the service, since) I shall send the muzzles immediately.” We said
to him, “May God keep the king and his vizier alive. May God not bring upon them or upon us any evil.” He said,
“Our star will rise soon, if God wills.” When they heard (i.e., it was heard) that the Nubians had rebelled against
the king, he (Merki) killed them (i.e., the Nubian rebels) and said, “The slaves of the Master of the Horses who are in this land—wherever
they have a place, they enter into it.” He entered Aswan and gathered the slaves of Darmā (i.e., those in Darmā's service)
and brought me to them and said to me that “the Master of the Horses has ordered me to take over the administrative office.”
I said to him, “Who has endowed you with the office before I come to take over from you the office?”
But he persisted. Everything that he said to me is in this letter. He decided to come to you, when he heard
that I wanted to plunder his house. He was afraid and came to you. Do not accept (anything) from him. I am not
owed by him what is needed with regard to the five head of horses. Whatever you want, do not accept
from him anything until I come and take a stand against him. What he says is not old.
He has only spoken (these things) in recent times. What is new was something old,10 but it was only
in these last two months. If you command me, I shall finish (my business here) and come (to you). Write and let me know. If you would like to tell me
to come to you and return, write and let me know. The bearer of this letter has brought you the full report.
When he is present (with you), ask him about your horses. I am only waiting for the reply to this letter.
