Recto

.... This letter of mine comprises an account of all that happened.
The president of the court and the Maghrebis arrived two days before the New Year. On the New Year my lord,
the head of the yeshiva was not permitted (by his physician) to go down to the synagogue. I did not wish that the ʿIbbur should be made in my house, since we had assembled in the house of the president of the court,
and his brother al-Sahl did not like me because he was a partisan of the Shuway' family. Abu 'l-Khayr, the son of the Taherti, was present with us and we prayed for him as 
"member ( of the yeshiva)." On Saʿīd b. Israʾīl al-Ḥarrāz (probably to be read as Kharraz) we conferred the title ... and on ... Yaḥyā of Damascus the title "Seventh."
On Rosh ha-shanah, I and the president of the court went down to the synagogue, and at the time of the reading of the Torah we repeated publicly that Elḥanan would be expelled because of judgments (illegally given by him?).
I presided over the ceremony of the blowing of the shofar. The president of the court delivered the sermon on Sabbath Shūvā (the Sabbath between New Year and the day of Atonement), and during the ten days of atonement I was constantly in charge of ...
On the Day of Atonement did my lord, the head of the yeshiva, go down to the synagogue. The president of the court conducted the reading of the Torah, I the Musaf service, al-Kharraz - Minhah,
and our lord, the Gaon - Neʿilah. The president preached on the first (?) day of Sukkah ( = Sukkoth) and I on Sabbath ʿAssēr (the Sabbath during the half-holidays).
My lord, the head of the yeshiva, delivered the sermon on the Mount of Olives on the day of 'Arāvā ( = Hoshana Rabba, the seventh day of Sukkoth). Only few pilgrims were present. Meanwhile, Elḥanan had arrived, but we chased him away so that he found himself
in an indescribably humiliating position .... Finally, he testified before the assembly that he ...
to this yeshiva. And when .... Afterwards, we were friendly with him and called him up
to the reading of the Torah. On the 8th of Marheshvan did the president of the court conduct the geshem (prayer for rain during the winter season). On the day after the holidays I was called
in great haste to Salmān, the Son of the Scholar, may God have mercy upon him for he was in a grave state of illness. He testified before us
that he possessed nothing and that he was a poor man and that his brother and sister were his heirs. He died on Friday night. On Sabbath ...
I delivered the sermon and on the Hoshana day we confirmed the son of Elhanan as Fourth.
The son of the Rūmī Rav and ... And we confirmed Abu 'l-Khayr ...

Recto, right margin


(And please excuse me for ... ) and being late in writing, but these were the holidays, and God knows that I did not cease to mention you in (my prayers).

