Verso

… with an attractive young girl. The Jews here do not
treat me as a stranger. I have no means for the voyage to you (plural). We are
three persons and I am afraid we might be a burden on you (plural), in particular,
since the good news you broached to me was only that you w111 not need me — may the H(oly one), b(lessed be) h(e), let you never
be in need of anyone except himself. Despite my blindness and utmost physical weakness,
which has befallen me in these foreign parts, I am not lost.
At the reverse, I am in a thousand states of prosperity. Praise be to God who provides me with sustenance
in his kindness. I am beloved here and honored by all God-fearing,
intelligent, and educated persons. Nothing, though, has remained with me
except my tongue and my brain. I am able to listen in my room to the sounds of the synagogue service,
when it is conducted by a cantor on Friday nights, Saturday mornings and evenings.
And although the community in Salonika contains
fine scholarly people, no one yet has been able to catch me at
an error in the discussion of civil or criminal law or any
other of the sciences. In short, I have no grief except the separation from you.
You conjure me in your letter in the name of God, saying: "The moment you
have read this letter do not tarry any longer, but come." Please,
do not write such a thing again, for I am yearning for you a thousand times more
than you do for me, but I have no strength. I cannot tell you, my boy,
how happy I was with the letter of your brother-in-law Abu 'l-Ḥasan,
for I learned from it that he comes from
a fine family. You are having a good company in him, and although in your other brother-in-law —
although I have not yet received a letter from him — and with
your sisters, your mother and with my daughter, may God keep her,
and the family of your father-in-law. Greet them all
and their children from me. May they all be blesed by the H(oly one), b(lessed be) h(e), 
and gain fame and progeny. My boy Ismaʿīl,
I was informed that in the year 48 the Nile not reach its standard height. I was terrified and had no
rest either by day or by night. By God, make an effort and write
me about your well-being, also who is your other brother-in-law
and how does each of you gain his livelihood. Give my best regards
to your father-in-law and let me know which rank he has among the "members."
Send your letter to ʿImrān b. Nahum in Alexandria,
and he will forward it to me. The address: To Saloniki,
the Upper Synagogue, the House of Shabbetay, the son of M. Moses,
Meṭākala, the Head (of the congregation). My boy, I conjure you in the name of God,
do not neglect the pursuit of knowledge. I am also astonished about you that you [ ... ]
 
 
 
 
 

Recto

 
My boy, God is my witness that, in the beginning,
I could not come back to you because I had not the necessary means. All of you know
that whenever I had accumulated some sums I did not leave one penny with me,
but spent everything on you (plural), because I loved you and had mercy with you. Secondly, I wished
to bury my bones in the Holy City, for out of this desire
I had left the inheritance of the house of my fathers and separated from them. But that was at a time
of which God disapproved. Therefore, it is now twenty six years since I left
you and did not find rest in any place for thirty months, and I had never
enough money for traveling back to you. I learned also that
... , the paternal uncle of Joseph, perished in a fire, he and all those that were with him;
when I left you, you had a partnership with him. At that time, my means dwindled because of the many expesnes
and I saw no hope for me any more in the lands of Islam. The fourth girl died.
The Turks swept over the eastern parts of the land of the Romans and I fled
before them hurriedly to the western part. My eyesight began to fail and constantly worsened
in the course of five years. After this I did not think that there remained with me p [… ]
for this girl that is with me,
although many
young men have asked her hand, and she did not accept any one of them. Now
your letter and that of your brother-in-law Abu 'l-Ḥasan have arrived and you ask me
not to tarry a moment after having seen your letters. But
I have not strength enough
to walk from my room to the door of the house without being supported and am
generally in a poor state, being hard of hearing and of utmost frailty. If you would see me you would run away
a month’s walking distance. And consider the enormous perils
of the voyage, its expenses, my fright because of my high age and
my solicitude for that who is with me, although she wishes to travel. Do not oppose me in this
matter. I am also afraid of becoming a burden on you, I and my family.
For you know it is not my nature to save money, but when
I have some, I consume it. By God, my boy, do not suspect
anything and do not think evil of the ways of the Creator. 
Do not pay attention to the talk of a group that has traveled from 
here to your place and of which even the most important men among them have been afflicted 
by doctrines that I am ashamed to mention orally, let alone in writing. My son, 
rely on your own judgment and on what you have learned. When you were a boy of thirteen years 
you dazzled the people by your brilliant mind. Do you not know that these are heavenly things 
in which no one has a share? Take a lesson from what happened to your sisters and 
to 
you in Cairo. Did you perish or even your possessions? Greetings of p[eace].
