Recto

 

... the whole of the above-mentioned .... Also, the decision to let him take a part of the rent of the above-mentioned estate for repairs in the ṭabaqa 


 mentioned above and the completion of any work that is necessary for the good of the above-mentioned compound . . 


 And after this . . . . there is still a sum of ca. 8 dinars necessary for the completion of the above-mentioned ṭabaqa. So he discussed? (this matter) with 


 the administrator of the affairs of the said estate, that he should talk with al-Shaykh Abuʾl-Makārim al-Levi al-ʿAṭṭār . . .


 b. Nufayʿ, His High Holiness, our Lord and Master Nādīv ha-Levi, the Honorable Elder, may God preserve him, the son of his High Holiness, our Lord and Master, Moses ha-Levi, the Honorable Elder, of blessed memory 


 that he may advance some of his money in order to help to complete the above mentioned ṭabaqa .... 


 the rent of al-Burj of which he is the inhabitant, in Fustat of Egypt, in Qaṣr al-Shamʿ, adjacent to the synagogue of the Babylonians 


 which at present belongs to the Milk al-ʿAniyīm. This in addition to what he has already advanced for his apartment ni the said al-Burj. 


 So al-Shaykh Abuʾl-Makārim kindly and generously accepted this (proposal) and made a prepayment 


(11-12) to the administrator in charge of the supervision of the Estate of the heqdēsh, of 6 3/4 dinars in gold, of good quality, of full weight, of legal Egyptian tender, as rent for two full and successive lunar years, whose beginning will coincide with the expiration of the deed of lease 

 

 which he already holds, that is the first of the month of Tammuz 1491 of the documents, corresponding to the first of Ṣafar 


 of the year 576 of the Arab calendar, and ending on the last of Iyyar 


 of the year 1493 of the documents, corresponding to the last of Muḥarram 


(16-17) of the year 578 of the Arab calendar. So We, the Court, and those who signed together with us, lease to the said al-Shaykh Abuʾl-Makārim al-Tājir al-Levi, for the above-mentioned sum, the whole of the above mentioned al-Burj 

 

 for the above-mentioned period, so that he may install in it reservoirs of rose water and store in it whatever he wants 


 and chooses. He may use it the way any tenant of his kind does. And this lease made by 


 Us, the Court and those who signed together with Us at the bottom, to al-Shaykh Abuʾl-Makārim al-Levi al-Tājir al- …


Verso


(1-2) . . . the second one . . . the document proper . ... the year. . .of the documents, corresponding to Safar of the year 579 of the Arab calendar, and ending on the last of Nisan of the year 1495 of the documents, 

 

 corresponding to the last of Muḥarram of the year 580, a lease that is sound, complete, definitive, binding on al-ʿAniyim and on whoever would appear 


 in their name. (This we leased) to the said al-Shaykh Abuʾl-Makārim, and to his heirs after him, from now on. We, the Court, and those who sign together with Us at the bottom, enact that al-Shaykh


(5-6) Abuʾl-Makārim, as named above, from now on, may use the whole al-Burj, as mentioned above in the document proper, including all its premises and appurtenances, during the above-mentioned period, any extant use, as tenants of his kind do, in accordance with the permission given him in the two deeds of lease 

 

 that are written in the document proper. We, the Court, and those who signed together with Us, at the bottom, completely confirm all of it to him. This happened in 


 the middle ten days of the month of Teveth of the year 1493 of the documents, in Fustat of Egypt, which is situated on the Nile River, 


 under the authority of our Lord and Gaon, Sar Shālōm ha-Levi Gāʾōn, may his name last for ever. All this is valid, firm, and sound. 


 Samuel ha-Levi b. R. Saadya, of blessed memory. Elazar b. R. Michael, of blessed memory. 


 Peraḥyā b. R. Joseph ha-Lev. Abraham b. Yeḥiyyā al-Levi, of blessed memory . . . .


 