Verso
 


[Whoever defies an act of obligatory practice, or a ritual from the rituals of Islam, or refuses from fulfilling his obligation to the rightful]


people, by virtue of denying the obligation or rejecting it, warrants his killing, and punitive measures being appointed against him


when possible, unless he repents and seeks forgiveness. 


And everyone who obstructs the implementation of one of the legal punishments (ḥudūd) 


of God, it is obligatory to wage jihād against him. As for bandits (luṣūṣ), if they attack the property 


of Muslims, it is obligatory to wage jihād against them, prevent them from infringing it, and kill them against this pretext. Whoever


is killed defending his own wealth or that of another Muslim is a martyr (shahīd). However,


[if he refrains from defending his own property and surrenders without resisting], there is no blame upon him.


[As for the stolen property recovered from the bandits; if they are captured, then its return depends: if the owners are known, it is repatriated to them; if the owners are unknown, it is to be delivered to the Imām.]


Recto



[The apostates (ahl al-ridda) are to be killed. In a situation where their womenfolk commit apostasy and are confined to a place,]


the men are to be killed and the women and children are to be held in captivity.  They should later be subjected to the division of spoils. When


the women and men have apostasized and are in a city where there is a Muslim population, the men are to be killed, 


the women imprisoned, and the children held until they reach the age of puberty. Whoever among them embraces Islam is 


free; and if they do not embrace Islam, the men are to be killed and the women imprisoned. If only the men apostatize


and the women refrain, the men are to be killed, and the children retain the Muslim status of their mothers,


 if they embrace Islam. [The heretics (zanādiqa) are to be called to seek forgiveness, 


and if they fail to do so, they are to be killed and burned with fire after execution].


Recto



[The sale of foodstuffs is not permitted unless the commodities have been delivered in full. However, it is permitted to sell them [before their full delivery] without a profit (tawliya), and the same ruling applies


] to all commodities. It is permitted to purchase foodstuffs, and the 


buyer shall make his purchase once he has validated the weight of the 


seller’s measurement (kayl al-bāyiʿ). The practice of iḥtikār (hoarding) is prohibited when food becomes scarce, and the practice of price-fixing (tasʿīr) has also been prohibited.


Usury (ribā) is also forbidden and there is a severe censure regarding it. This applies to anyone who engages in it deliberately.


As for one who repents from it, he may take back only his capital, and the excess (al-faḍl) must be returned


Verso



if both parties agree to it, and there is no objection. Whoever advances (aslaf) dirhams or dinars [as a loan], 


and is then repaid in better (i.e., newer or higher quality) coins, there is no objection—provided that this was not stipulated in advance.


There is also no objection to exchanging unequal amounts (tafāḍul) between different types [of commodities] if they are of different kinds. Wheat (al-burr) and barley (al-shaʿīr) are, however, considered a single 


type (nawʿ wāḥid), and it is therefore not permissible to exchange them with disparity. The same applies to wheat (ḥinṭa), 


flour (daqīq), and groats (sawīq). It is disliked (yukrahu) to sell fresh dates (ruṭab) for dried dates (thamar).

