Recto
On Thursday [ the t]wenty-fifth da[y] of the month of Tammuz in the year one thousand threehundred and ninety-[fi]ve, according to the cou[nt] to which [we are accustomed], in Fusṭāṭ Egypt situated on the NileRiver, thus: M(r.) Yaḥyā b. M(r.) Samuel (who) r(ests in) E(den) [app]eared before us in the court, and sued M(r.) Amram b. M(r.) Abraham (who) r(ests in) E(den) concerning … I have merchandise with him  which arrived …, Siklatun clothing and silk; and a pierced piece of silver, and scammony, and saffron, and he bought for himselfwith [its pro]ceeds merchandise in exchange: wool, spices and unspun linen, and cinnamon, and he accounted for all this, and an account for fourteen and a quarter din(ars) remained with him. We asked this M(r.) Amram concerning this and he said, “I did not take charge of anything he mentioned, rather I tookfrom him a quantity of silver coinage, and I sent it to Abū al-Ḥusayn al-Tinnīsī who assumed responsibility for its aforementionedsale to M(r.) Japheth b. Abraham (who) r(ests in) E(den), and he prepared an account sheet concerning it. I calculated its amounts for it, and I settled (accounts) with him, and [nothing] remains with him from that residual.” This M(r.) Yaḥyā askedif he would delay the case, since this M(r.) Amram is traveling, and there was a power of attorney between them for the sum totalin their account, and they asked him if he would delay his case till the return of this M(r.) Amram from his journeyso that the claim for this M(r.) Yaḥyā will take priority when the Sage sits (and evaluates the case) and this M(r.) Amram agreed to this,and at that the two of them took leave. We wrote down and signed what happened before us in order that it would be a title of right and proof.Scratched out: the two of them took leave. And it is correct and this is its confirmation.     Hillel the Ḥazzan b. ‘Alī (may his) m(emory be) f(or a blessing)‘Alī ha-Kohen b. Yaḥyā (whose) s(oul is at) r(est)Yair b. Ephraim (whose) s(oul is at) r(est)Peraḥya b. Natan …