T-S 8J4.11 Recto
Testimony which was given before us, we the witnesses whose signature is at the endof this document: on Sunday, the fifth of the month of Adar of the yearone thousand four hundred and three years, according to the count to which we are accustomed, in FusṭāṭEgypt, situated on the Nile River. Thus: (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Yaḥyāha-Kohen b. Samuel (who) r(ests in) E(den) and (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) ‘Ulla ha-Levi b. Joseph (may his) e(nd be) g(ood) and Mevasercalled Bishāra the freedman came before us, and they said to us thus: “We have sought the guidance of God, may His Name be exalted, and we have contracted a partnership (shirka) between us. I, Yaḥyā ha-Kohenb. Samuel (who) r(ests in) E(den) and I, ‘Ulla ha-Levi b. Joseph (may his) e(nd be) g(ood) have brought out one hundred dinars from our assets
T-S NS J6 Recto
[…] one [hundred] and fifty-five dinars and a third. From this total, this Mr. Yaḥyā ha-Kohen had a half and a quarter, which is one hundred and sixteen dinars and a half, and from this total Mr. ‘Ulla b. Joseph ha-Levi (may his) e(nd be) g(ood) had thirty-eight dinars and a half and a third of this total, which was a quarter (of the total,) to be ascribed to him. I, Bishāra the freedman, broughttwenty dinars from my own assets, making our total capital one hundred and seventy-five dinars and a third. I, Bishāra, (agreed to) buy indigo using all the (capital)of Mr. Yaḥyā ha-Kohen and of Mr. ‘Ūlla ha-Levi, for one hundred dinars and forty-five dinars,and ground (spices) for ten dinars and a third. I, Bishāra, (agreed to) buy in Fusṭāṭwhat which I saw fit, with the twenty dinars which I had in the middle (that is, in the partnership). I will travel withall that, one hundred and seventy-five dinars and a third, toAleppo and Antioch, nowhere else, as my partners have stipulated for me;I have accepted this condition from them. Likewise, the two of them have stipulated upon me that I would only sellfor cash, neither for any loss nor with any forbearance. I took that upon myself effective immediately.I will buy from those places (Aleppo and Antioch) that which God, may His Name be exalted, facilitates, and I will transport it to Fusṭāṭ.That which will be mercifully bestowed from the Heavens in terms of profit therein (will be calculated) after paying for all provisionsnecessary for that merchandise. As for my own provisions, they will be that connected to  the merchandise with me. From the profit therein, Mr. Yaḥyā ha-Kohen b. Samuel (who) r(ests in) E(den) and Mr.‘Ūlla ha-Levi b. Joseph (may his) e(nd be) g(ood) will have two thirds which they will split according to their capital (investment), and the remaining third will be for me—I, Bishāra the freedman. I took upon myself—I, Bishāra—effective immediately,the faith of the Heavens that I acknowledge the trust in this entire partnership (shirka), and I have not concealedanything therein from my two partners, nor have I cheated them at all, nor have I overreached from them, not evenfor an amount equivalent to a farthing. Mr. Yaḥyā ha-Kohen and Mr. ‘Ūlla ha-Levi and M(r.) Bishāra took upon themselves […] and not like
T-S 8J4.12 Recto
responsibility for everything explained above, from beginning to end, for this is not like promises, [and not like]formularies, but rather (bears) the weight and force of all legal documents of the court, which are instituted by the decreeof the Sages and which are universally employed, from this day forward, nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions, in any languagewhich the Sages employ to nullify secret dispositions and conditions. We performed a qinyan with each of them with his fellowconcerning everything written and stipulated above, with an item suitable for doing so. Proper and enduring.We wrote and signed (this document) and gave it to Mr. Yaḥyā ha-Kohen and to Mr. ‘Ūlla ha-Levi, in order that they would havea title of right and proof. Hanging (between the lines): “Enduring, and this is its confirmation.” Our signature was delayed to thetwenty-seventh of Adar, from the aforementioned month, which was the year one thousand four hundredand three years (of the Era) of Documents. W(ritten) upon an erasure: “enduring. And this is its confirmation.”Ṣedaqa ha-Kohen b. David (who) r(ests in) E(den)Jachin the Ḥazzan b. Abraham (may his) end be good     Isaac b. Eleazar )whose) s(oul is at) r(est)This document was confirmed before us in the court of three sitting as one; its text and testimony written above, and its confirmation therefrom and therein below in the handwritingof these witnesses, being M(r.) Jachin the Ḥazzan b. Abraham (may his) e(nd be) g(ood) and M(r.) Isaac the Elder b.Eleazar (whose) s(oul is at) r(est) and M(r.) Ṣedaqa ha-Kohen b. David (who) r(ests in) E(den,) who wrote in their signatures, and from when M(r.) Isaac b. Eleazar (whose) s(oul is at) r(est) came and (personally) showed us that this was his signature. It was presumedby us that the signature of M(r.) Jachin the Ḥazzan b. Abraham (may his) e(nd be) g(ood was his own signature). We declared it proper and enduring as is fitting.Abraham b. master Nathan, Father of the Academy, (may the) m(emory of the) r(ighteous be) f(or a blessing)  Abraham b. master Shemaiah the Ḥaver h(e shall) l(ive a) h(appy life,) a(nd his children shall) i(nherit the) l(and), great-grandson of Shemaiah Gaon (who) r(ests in) E(den)Solomon ha-Kohen b. Joseph, Head (of the Court), great-grandson of Solomon Gaon (may the) m(emory of the) r(ighteous be) f(or a blessing)