Verso


The slave


Abū ʿAbdallāh, the baker from Fusṭāṭ.


In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate.


The benedictions of God and his blessings, his increasing benefactions, most excellent greetings and peace be upon our master and lord


the imām al-ʿĀḍid li-Dīn AlIāh, commander of the faithful, and upon his pure ancestors and expected sons,


enduring benedictions, which last until the day of judgement. The slave kisses the ground and reports to the lofty, exalted and sublime seat


of the great lord, (commander of) the armies, sword (of Islam), the protector (of the judges of the Muslims), the defender (of mankind), the guide (of the dāʿīs of the believers), {and} may (God) strengthen the religion through him,


gratify the commander of the faithful by his longevity, cause his power to endure, exalt his word and execute his commands and judgments upon the face of the earth,


and reports that he is a poor man, with a family and children, a baker in Fusṭāṭ, and that he is in debt


to a man called ʿAbd al-Bāqī ibn Wardar. He is too poor to pay it off


and the aforementioned creditor is demanding it from him in a cruel fashion. The slave requests the kindness


and benefaction of the issuing of an incontrovertible ordinance to the mighty judge to look into


his situation and allow him to pay the debt in instalments, according to his condition, and to treat him leniently, so that he may find the means


of dwelling in his native city, support his beloved family and live a new life in these days of the (commander of) the armies,


may God, the exalted, cause them to remain and make eternal the reign of the one who rules during them, as a benefaction and kindness to him. To the exalted resolutions


belongs the merit of loftiness and power regarding that, if God, the exalted, wills.


Praise be to God alone and his blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad and his family and save them.


Recto, right side

An instruction has been given to the prosperous and trustworthy qāḍī Kamāl al-Dīn
to clarify the situation of the petitioner and, if his poverty is established
in the way that such matters are established, let him look into his case according to the demands of the holy law
and the requirements of public utility. (The qāḍī was also instructed) to deposit it
in his hand.

Recto, left side


Praise be to God and ....


Let the prosperous, trustworthy qāḍī


Kamāl aI-Dīn, the trust of mankind, the nobility of judges,


the might of the Muslims, the chosen one of the believers,


may God cause to endure his support and his strength, and give him a good measure


of help and prosperity, clarify the case of the petitioner and, if


his poverty is established in the way such matters are established, let him look


into his affair, according to the demands of the holy law


and the requirements of public utility, and let it be deposited in his hand.

