Recto 
…[…] … ten, and five hundred and fifty and a half Almoravid dinars … silver weighing eighty-two dirhams, and a linen Tūnī cloak with a border, and my agent has a claim for all that from the 4 of them. We sent an inquiry to Fusṭāṭ and the matter remained in his hand such as it is. I am separating (myself)from him concerning what he chooses and effective immeditely, he has … and power in this locale to receive my assetsinto his hand and to release (someone) from the remainder—he alone. This is roughly the text of the aforementioned document whichwas brought to us, from beginning to end; and the text of the witnesses letter for letter and word for word: Testimony which was before us—we, the undersigned witnesses. Thus: the Elder Abū Sa‘īd (our) tea(cher) and m(aster)Ḥalfōn the beloved b. (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Nissim the Elder, known as the Elder Abū Ḥusayn, known as al-Tinnīsī (who) r(ests in) E(den) and the ElderAbū al-Faḍl (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Amram the beloved b. (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Ephraim the Elder, known as the Elder Abū Kathīr (who) r(ests in) E(den), and theElder Abū al-Faraj al-Jubaylī (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Yeshu‘a the beloved ha-Levi b. (his) h(onor,) g(reatness, and) h(oliness) Manasseh ha-Levi, Head of the Congregation(who) r(ests in) E(den) came before us, and they said to us, “Testify on our behalf and perform a qinyan with us effective immediately, write and sign concerning us with allthe appropriate legal formulae and the expressions of certainty, and all the language of claims, and give that to his Excellency the glorious Elder Abū al-Riḍā the agent (his) hon(or,) gre(atness, and) hol(iness,) our teacher and our master Solomon the honored courtier, the Sage and the wise one, b. (his) hon(or,)gre(atness and) hol(iness) our teacher and our master Mevorakh, the Ḥaver (Fellow) of the Great Sanhedrin (may his) m(emory be) f(or a blessing,) in order that he would have from this day forward proof and a legal claimthat we attest before you with the most certain and perfect expressions of affirmation, in our good health and freedom of will,willingly, with neither duress nor force nor compulsion, without negligence or error, nor defect of illness within us, nor anything of the like from all the factors which nullify testimony, that we have asked God, may His name be exalted, for guidance, and we have affixed our names,and we have received and accepted from him a basket of Dabīqī cloth, the amount of its value being two hundred and fifty-four dinars, and ten items of clothing amounting to nine dinars less a quarter, and specie amount to thirty-seven dinars and a quarter (dinar),the total being three hundred gold dinars of weighed specie, good and correct, of Fusṭāṭ standard weight. All that came intoour possession entirely and in toto, that we would travel with it to Yemen and to other placesto which we might turn in travel […] the good fortune therein, and the benefit—if God wills it—