(recto, ll. 1–12)
Her name is both Sitt al-Rutab and Sitt al-Fakhr. He releases Sitt [al-Rutab] from all claims and concedes to her all which is in her possession, both as her dowry and from other sources. The same applies to his mother, Sitt al-Niʿam. He grants them free disposal (that is, complete proprietorship) of the large house which is known as their domicile. 
This house has the following borders: 
 
To the south, the lane which separates it from the ruin and into which its doorway opens. 
To the ⟦east⟧ north, the al-Ḥudayjī street, into which another of its doorways opens, as well as [the house...] the house held in partnership with the Pious Foundation [and the above-mentioned girl and her mother], of which they possess three-quarters belonging exclusively to them. 
To the east, the ruin which belongs to them and the small house.
To the west, the house known as the property of Fakhr al-Dawla 
Thiqat al-Mulk known as Ibn Kardūsh, and of his partner Abu ʾI-Riḍā, son of the chief (physician) Abu ʾl-Najm.
 
The house which is to the east of the large house and which comprises two qāʿas, or ground floors, as well as an upper floor known as the residence of Munajjā, the son of Abū Saʿd, the druggist, and, finally, the ruin with the well and the waterwheel (also are conceded to be the full property of the two ladies mentioned above). 
They also have a share in a property in the Mamṣūṣa quarter, namely, five-eighths of the large house which has a ground floor and nine upper apartments. That house has four borders: The first, to the south, is the house known as [the residence] the property of the elder al-Wajīh, the physician, their grandfather, which is held in partnership with [the h(eirs)] the (Muslim) Ministry of Pious Foundations. The amount of her [sic] share is three-quarters, namely, the part of the house known as the residence of Abu-Sḥāq, the son of [al-Marjānī (the dealer in corals)]... (discontinued in the middle of the line) 
 
(verso, 11. 1-27 and recto, II. 13–29) 
 
In each of the three houses and two ruins described in the document, altogether five places, he has one share out of three and holds possession of each, as he claims. All are in Fus(tat) of E(gypt) in the places which will be mentioned hereafter. 
 
(verso, 11. 3-27) 
 
The large house, which is one of the three main houses mentioned, is described in the document first. It is situated between the two quarters, one known as the Old Spinnery and the other as Mahra, in the alley k(nown) by the name of Ibn Kardūsh, the Christian, the beginning of which alley opens into the way by which one gets to the aforementioned two quarters and to other places. 
Description of this house: 
It has an arched doorway closed by two dark brown door leaves. Through it one enters a corridor paved with marble in which there are two benches. From the aforementioned corridor one enters a second corridor, through which one comes to a large qāʿa, or ground floor, comprising two reception halls (literally, sitting rooms), facing each other with folding doors fastened on them, whose crossboards and outsides are carved.
One of the two reception halls is longish. Its walls are of marble and it has two passages of carved wood, each of which has a door leading to an adjacent cabinet. The reception hall has on its "front" (i.e. the wall opposite the entrance) a "windcatcher," or ventilation chimney, whose floor and walls are of marble. In front of the ventilation chimney, there is a gilded wash basin. The reception hall is encircled by a gilded cornice. On the aforementioned ventilation chimney there are folding doors whose crossboards and outsides are carved. The ceiling of the room is painted with decorations in oil according to the Syrian fashion. 
The second reception hall, which faces the first one described before, has folding doors on its entrance and on its front a ventilation chimney with folding doors all of whose crossboards and outsides are carved. The front is of marble in different colors. 
The ground floor has two ṣuffas, or covered benches, facing one another, with marble walls and ceilings painted in oil. 
In the open court of the qāʿa there is a fountain of marble, and the entire court of this qāʿa, both its floor and its walls, are covered with marble. There are also various closets with doors whose crossboards and outsides are of carved wood. 
The qāʿa comprises also a kitchen, as well as two loggias which look out on the open court of the ground floor, and each of them one reaches by a staircase of stone. 
The floor of the bathroom belonging to the qāʿa is entirely paved with marble and is topped by a copula of carved gypsum. The qāʿa has also a secret door which belongs to it and which opens on the place known as al-Ḥudayjī street. Above the court of this qāʿa there is a gallery of carved gypsum.
A rectangular door belongs to the upper part of this qā'a, through which one enters a small corridor with a staircase of stone which enables one to reach an upper floor comprising three apartments, adjoining one another. Each of these apartments has a strong ceiling and doors fastened on the closets belonging to it as well as a separate washroom [and four], and other appurtenances and rights. 
Above all this there is a roof with a parapet and a wooden railing around the staircase which leads to the upper floor. The house possesses also canalization which belongs exclusively to it and appurtenances and rights. 
 
(verso, 1. 27, and recto, 11. 13-16) 
 
The house is delimited by four borders. First, to the south, the lane from which it is entered and on which its doorway opens. Second, to the north, the house known as that of Abu ʾl-Thanāʾ, son of Barakāt, son of ʿAmmār, the Jew, the sugar merchant, which is entered from al-Ḥudayjī Lane. Third, to the east, the ruin which belongs to the house. The ruin consists of an open space and three storerooms. Fourth, to the west, the house known as that of Ibn al-Kardūsh and their [sic] partners. 
 
III. Description of the second house (recto, 11. 17-21) 
 
Description of the second house. It has two doorways, one, which is approached from the alley which opens on the Qarāfa (Cemetery) Street, and the second, which is approached from the cattle pen belonging to the aforementioned Abu ʾl-Ṭahir. The house is in the quarter mentioned in the document before. It comprises two reception halls and a staircase of stone on which one ascends first to the loggia and then to two floors which are one above the other, the first (the lower) having two apartments, and the second one apartment with the roof bordering on it. The house has also canalization belonging to it exclusively. 
 
(recto, 11. 21–26) 
 
The house is delimited by the following four boundaries. First, to the south, the cattle pen which is in its entirety the property of the aforementioned Abu ʾl-Ṭahir. Second, to the north, the place known as the Women's Qā'a, which also belongs to this Abu ʾl-Ṭahir. Third, to the east, the lane from which the house is entered; fourth, to the west, the rest of the house which belongs to Abu ʾl-Ṭahir and which is known as the Women's Quarters. 
 
(recto, 11. 26-29) 
 
Description of the house which is mentioned in the document as third and as being in the quarter mentioned in it. The house is approached from the alley which opens on the way by which one walks to the Qarāfa Street and el(sewhere). It has a large rectangular doorway from which one enters two qā'as, one of which is... The (first) qā'a comprises two reception halls... (end of the leaf). 
 