Recto 


In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. Praise be to God with the praise of those who give thanks.  


This is what ʿUmar ibn Mūsā, the dealer in oil, who on this day is a man of  average stature,  


pure reddy-brown in complexion, with a smooth broad forehead, with fine eyebrows separated in the middle,  


with fleshy eye-lids, dark brown eyes, a wide, thick nose, prominent cheekbones  and a round beard, leased from Yaʾʾāsa (?) 


ibnat Ismaʿīl, whose father is know as aI-Kohen, the Jewess. He leased


from her, with one clapping of the hands and one contract, all the lower floor that this  


lessor stated was one of the rights of the house belonging to her and in her ownership, as a valid asset and a right with legal force,  


in her possession. It has a rectangular door, a living room on the left of anyone entering it,  


a bench opposite it and a washroom on the right of anyone entering this  aforementioned ground floor.  


It is in Fusṭāṭ- Miṣr, in the cul-de-sac street known  


as Ṣadaqa street. It has four boundaries. Its first boundary, which is the southern, extends to the large house  


that is part of the foundation of Khalaf al-Kindī. The second boundary, which is  the northern, extends to  


the road dividing this house from the house that used to be known by (the name of) the elder Abū ʿAbdallāh  


Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd al-Wāḥid ibn ʿAlī, formerly an accredited witness in Fusṭāṭ,  then subsequently known by (the name of) his heirs.  


The third side, which is the eastern, used to be known by (the name of) the sharīf Abū al-Ḥusayn Ismaʿīl  


ibn al-Ḥusayn al-ʿAbbāsī, formerly an accredited witness in Fusṭāṭ, then  subsequently by (the name of) his heirs. The western boundary extends


to the house known by (the name of) the daughter of the aforementioned sharīf Abū al-Ḥusayn al-ʿAbbāsī. (He leased it) with all its boundaries,


rights, amenities, and facilities, except for the apartments situated above


this ground floor, for neither they, nor any part of them, have been included in  everything that this lease entailed,  


everything that this lease entailed being free, without encumbrance. (He leased it)  for a period of one  


complete year, beginning on the first day of Dhū al-Qaʿda of the year five-hundred and twenty  


and ending on the last day of Shawwāl of the year five-hundred and twenty-one,  for a rent  


in this period amounting to forty-eight dirhams, waraq, of good alloy, full weight, which are used as currency  


 in Fusṭāṭ, reckoning at four dirhams for each month thereof, with a valid, operative lease,  


this rent being payable by this lessee in instalments. He undertakes to pay this to this lessor monthly,  


an instalment every month at its end, without any delay, withholding, oath, or litigation.  


This lessor handed over to this lessee everything that this lease entailed


and he received that from her and it passed into his possession. His right to have the usufruct of it, dwell in it and store in it  


throughout this period until its end came into force. They contracted together this lease after having inspected this (property)  


and separated physically after its completion and coming into force, mutually satisfied with it and executing its provisions.  


The lessor granted the lessee a warranty against any defect in title regarding all of that. The acknowledgement by the lessor  


and the lessee mentioned herein of what is included herein was witnessed, after it  had been read to them. This was on the fifth day  


of Dhū al-Qaʿda in the year five-hundred and and twenty. Futūḥ ibn Faḍl, the  representative  


at the al-Ḥukm gate in Fusṭāṭ, formally recognized this lessor and also Abū ʿUmar Dāʾūd ibn Ḥasan, the Jewish manufacturer of purple cloth, and it was witnessed on its date.  


It contains a corrected word: ʿUmar, which is correct.  


Witness Clauses 
1. ʿAbd al-Bāqī ibn Ibrāhīm ibn al-Salam testified to  
2. the acknowledgement by the woman lessor and the lessee of what is contained  herein. ....... .  
3. mentioned herein, on its date (valid).  
4-5. I, Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan ibn Aḥmad ibn al-Ḥusayn, was called by the lessee to witness his acknowledgement, in  
6. the first ten days of Dhū al-Qaʿda in the year five-hundred and twenty.  
7.  ʿAbdallāh ibn ... ibn Aḥmad (valid) testified  
8. to the acknowledgement by the lessor and the lessee of what is contained herein  
9. in the first ten days of Dhū al-Qaʿda.
 
Verso 


I have received in full (what is stipulated on) the recto of this lease up to the beginning  


of Ramaḍān.  


I have received everything (that is stipulated) on the recto of this document.  


The lessor named on the recto called me to witness her receipt  


of the rent that was recorded as being owed by the lessee on the recto.


The lease came to an end and he contracted another lease, 


the monthly payment of which .... the year five-hundred and twenty-one .... (valid)  


Written by ʿAbd al-Wahhāb ibn Aḥmad on its date (valid).  


 