

In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. God bless Muḥammad, the  prophet, and his family and save them.  


[Al-Ḥasan ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn Jaʿfar al-Hāshimī] al-Khāzinī and his paternal sister  Mubāraka ibnat al-Ḥusayn ibn Jaʿfar al-Hāshimī al-Khāzinī, 


[in sound mind] and body, their acts being legal, voluntarily, not forced or  coerced, [acknowledged] that they had received from  


[the hands of] Aḥmad ibn al-Sayyidī, the representative of the glorious Sharīf, the  supreme leader of the Ṭālibīs, Abū al-Qāsim ʿAlī ibn Muḥammad al-Zaydī for  


[Rabīʿ] II of the year four-hundred and seven nine dīnārs, for Jumādā I three and  a half dīnārs, for Jumādā .  


[II two dīnārs] and an eighth, for Rajab two and a half dīnārs, for Shaʿbān two and  a quarter dīnārs, for the month of Ramaḍān five  


[dīnārs, a half] and an eighth, for Shawwāl three dinars and a quarter, Dhū al-Qaʿda one and a half dīnārs and for Dhū al-Ḥijja of this  


[year, previously mentioned] in this document, three dīnārs. All they received by way of these aforementioned instalments amounted to thirty-two  


and three quarter [dīnārs]. They received that from him wholly, fully and  completely and released him, and his descendants and heirs, from all of it and from any oath  


[upon it or upon] any part of it, with a valid quittance, a quittance of receipt in  full. This is by virtue of a binding right with legal force, which they recognized  he possessed, and the acknowledgement mentioned in this document made it  binding upon them to respect it with regard to him.  


Al-Ḥasan ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn Jaʿfar al-Hāshimī al-Khāzinī also stood surety for his sister,  


this Mubāraka ibnat al-Ḥusayn ibn Jaʿfar, on her instruction, for any claimant  through the agency of Aḥmad ibn al-Sayyidī, assuming liability for all claims  associated with her,  


[according to what is] mentioned and described in this document, with a valid and  legal surety, incumbent upon him and binding him. He acknowledged that he is solvent to the amount that he has stood surety for in  


[this regard]. Their acknowledgement of what is contained herein was witnessed  after it had been read to them and they acknowledged that they had understood  and recognized it, they being in sound health and their acts being legal. This was


[in Dhū] al-Ḥijja of the year four-hundred and seven.  


 
Witness Clauses 


ʿAlī ibn Aḥmad testified to the acknowledgement by the acknowledger of what is  contained herein. Valid.  


Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad ibn Muḥammad ibn Sādān testified to 


the acknowledgement of what is contained herein by the man who is the one  acknowledging and standing surety, on its date. Valid.  


ʿAbd al-Wahhāb ibn ʿAlī testified  


to the acknowledgement by the acknowledger of what is contained herein.  


 