IN (YOUR) NAME, O MERCI (FUL).
To my master and lord, my succor and supp[ort], may God prolong your life and m[ake permanent your high rank] and lofty position. May he crush those who envy you and not withhold from you [success]. May he substitute me [as ransom for all evil that might befall you and may he] never leave me [alone, being without you. May he let you suc]ceed in obeying him and eliciting his favor. May he unite us in happiness, soothe my solitude by your appearance and relieve my grief through your presence. Lo, he listens to our prayers and answers quickly. 
 
I arrived in Fez on Friday, 2nd of Marheshvan. At our arrival we were met by the informers and they found out exactly the number of the loads (belonging to us). They went to the superintendent of the customs and told him. On Sunday morning he sent for me and for Ibrahim and said to him: "Are you prepared to give an oath that all that arrived with you is entirely your property and that this man has no share in it?" Then he said to me: "Are you prepared to swear that nothing at all was brought by you to this place?" There was much talk, but he clearly knew that five camel loads had arrived with me. After great troubles it was agreed that the governor would take 10 mithqals; the superintendent of the customs, 3; the informers, 2; and the employees, ½. I was sick for three days out of anger and sorrow. Had I possessed here the same courage as I usually have in Almeria, I would have escaped with less than this. But I consoled myself with the solace of one who has no choice. I also said to myself, perhaps God may grant us some compensation for the loss. On the day of my arrival it was 3 and 2; today it is 2 and 4.
 
By God, if you can avoid it, do not go abroad. If God wills, I shall set out for Marrakesh with the very first company4 traveling  there, and, if necessary, inform you about the situation, whereupon you may make your decision. I have no other aim, by God, than saving you from trudging along the streets and traveling overland.
 
May God turn everything to a good end! I should also like to inform you that I spread out the niffiyya clothes, and the very first garment that fell into my hands was spoiled by water in all its folds. I went out of my mind, but God, the exalted, had willed that only this one was spoiled. This happened because we had much rain on the way, but God, the exalted, granted rescue. As of late today I sold ten pairs of them for a total of 80 dinars, inclusive of the ten bad ones and the one spoiled by water.
 
I bought first-class, excellent antimony (kohl), about twenty qintars, the qintar for 1 dinar. If you think that I should buy more, send me a note and let me know. For the lac I was offered 24 (dinars). I am holding on to it, perhaps I shall get 25. The good elastic (?)10 copper is worth here 9 dinars a qintar. Scammony is worth 3 dinars a pound. Inquire, and if it reaches that price in Almeria, sell it. Otherwise send me one half (of what we have) and leave there the other half. All our lac and nisfiyyas are in the house of Ibrahim, for I did not want to leave anything at all with me in the house. I may be able to sell all the nisfiyyas in Fez.
 
Please take notice that indigo is very much in demand here in Fez. I should also like to inform you that everyone, Muslims and Jews, tell me that Ibn Talw will pay me all he owes us, as soon as I arrive, for he is very rich today. Hatred (of Jews) is rampant in this country to a degree that, in comparison with it, Almeria is a place of salvation. May God the exalted grant rescue and a good end in his mercy.
(Address, right side:)
To my lord, succor, and support, my father, Japheth ha-Levi b. 'Ullah (may he) r(est in) E(den).
Forward, and you will be rewarded!
(Left side):
His son
May he become his ransom.