Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate. His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, and his family, and may He save (them).
(This is) my letter to my honourable lord, the most illustrious elder, may God prolong his life and cause his strength, his ascendance, his elevation, his splendour and his power to endure,
and crush in humility his enviers and his enemies. I inform him, may God cause his ascendance to endure, that I long greatly for his presence, may he be protected,
and am looking out on the road for letters conveying his news, and I often ask about him. He knows, may God protect his power, that he has the status
of a father for me and that if he wants me to do a task or needs my service for anything, then I would be happy to carry it out. I have sent in advance a first letter to the Master
of the Horses, the vizier of the king, with Ṭāʿī concerning two servants who fled from me there, to Ibrīm, (where you are) during your trip,
heading for Soba in the middle of Nubia. I did my utmost to pursue them until I crossed the waters of Kurkur. I was told that you were not
in the citadel known as Ibrīm. When I was notified that they had arrived in his (the eparch’s) land, I turned back (from my pursuit of) them. I have been informed that I shall not have my wages from him (the addressee) until when he returns.
Your current group, Ḥamdān and the son of my aunt, Ṣāliḥ, has sent in pursuit of those two servants and the camel (they fled on). If you had felt concern, I would not have been deprived of your attention,
nor would I have lacked your kindness. Moreover, I would not have desisted from travelling to Ibrīm in the current situation, but I did not know whether I had a friend or acquaintance in it (Ibrīm)
after you departed from it upriver and Ṭāʿī was absent. So I desisted from coming to the partner, because I did not dare, and, moreover, he could not have helped me (anyhow).
It has subsequently been reported to me that the partner had sent the three fugitive servants to Aswan and has sold them there, but I was not able to verify this
until your letter arrived, in which I was informed what you, may God preserve your life, wish, in your great solicitude and care for this matter. You know that I am from
among those who are capable of obtaining their rights and you know me and my father best. Do not neglect the matter, but write to me with a response quickly together with what is new in your place.
Inform the Master of the Horses about the person who is with you and tell him that he (the person with you) is the son of the sister of the judge Nūr al-Dīn and that he is a member
of the partnership of which Nūr al-Dīn is a member.

Recto - right margin

I explained (the affair) to him (Nūr al-Dīn?) and we were blessed with his trust and support,
for he offers me very kind support. Now,
this is what is needed. I have written concerning this
so that you know who is a trustworthy support
and you know that I have every [ ] and
I have brought into partnership with him my wife and my slave boy,
Ramaḍān and Rāshid, the mariner,
who is with him and those of the Nubians
[ ] upon them the greeting of Jaʿfar.

Recto - top margin

The commander was able to recompense him generously
and also recompense you with great generosity. I had hoped
that you would return such generosity to me and generous merchandise
all [ ] and my love (for you) makes me unwilling to take the sweet reward
of victory, when you are more worthy of reward today.
So, talk to him (the Master of the Horses?) and inform him that the author of the letter
brought by Ṭāʿī is an elder sent by the judge.
He is the son of the Kanzī judge deputising for him (the judge).
Let him (the Master of the Horses?) know and he will recompense you with anything available for you,
if either of us have difficulties.
He is [ ] generous.

Verso

The only reason I did not come to you after you arrived was that I wanted to spend the fast of Ramaḍān with my family. I will immediately send Ṭāʿī to bring back
the reply to my letter. After the flight of the servants, I rode a Nubian camel throughout the day and night and I did not rely on any
of the servants to undertake the search for them. I rode in the direction of Kurkur and then returned from there. Then I learnt that they had gone to Ibrīm.
You did not give instructions for any power to be granted to me so that I could go there to exercise this and overcome my current inability to act until the time of the arrival of the commander from his journey there. I have informed you of this so that you know
that I have asked him to respond quickly. Whatever he replies to you, give instructions to ʾAbū al-Wālid ibn Ḥāḍir to inform me of the decision of our lord (the commander), may you be granted success, if God wills.
I hired a muleteer and travelled to the person who is his (the commander’s?) lieutenant and he met with the Head of all of us, presiding over everything, whose decision is the (supreme) decision and it is fixed. If you make a decision, it is (likewise) fixed. So take from me
this servant and inform him that he is able to extract payment from two or three villages of your district to deliver into the hand of his (the commander’s?) slave boys. For I have sent the slave
of my freedmen. He is sound, but do not allow him any dispensation, and if he betrays me, the people will despise you. If he misses the opportunity for them to be exchanged, then buy similar ones\
and send them to me, and he should have a third of their price, if he wants my written certification. If he does me a good turn, as I do with others, let God enable him in his enterprise.
I can sell it and guarantee him a good net income, also the freedmen, the judge and more, because I am from among the people of the town and I get my way in the town.
I get my way more than cousins and brothers and family. I have informed him and I shall bring about the increase of the servants, and through this increase they will become a group.
[…… ] and greetings to you, with his mercy, and everybody in you presence, may it be protected, greet with the best greetings, and those who protect
your life. …. Praise be to God alone. Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

 Verso - right margin

And the wife has sent her greetings.
