Recto


The testimony which took place before us, we, the undersigned witnesses: On the middle ten days 


of the month of Tammūz 1555AG (June 1244) 


to the dating of deeds, the dating to which we are accustomed in Fustat Mitzrayim 


situated upon the River Nile, Aaron b. Abū al-Riḍā, m(ay he rest in) E(den) , and his wife, Labwa 


bt. Abū Ghālib, m(ay he rest in) E(den), came before us and told us: “Make the symbolic purchase from us, a complete and rigorous purchase, as of now, 


and write and sign using every expression of right that each of us, I, the aforementioned Aaron, 


have released the obligation of Labwa7, my wife, from any claim, demand, oath and judicial proceedings, 


from the laws of men and the laws of heaven and from all types of different vows. 


Nothing in the world remains for me with her, neither small norlarge.” Similarly,


 this Labwa bt. Abū Ghālib //said// “Make the symbolic purchase from me and witness for me, as of now, that I released 


the obligation8 of my husband, Aaron b. Abū al-Riḍā, from all that women are due 


from men and from my ketubba, essential and additional, and from the dowry. I have released 


him of all this orally and in (my) heart, in this world and in the next, a complete 


rigorous release. Nothing remains for me of his obligation from what is worth a penny or more. 


Moreover, I gave to my husband, the aforementioned Aaron, all that I am due from his obligation: the essential 


ketubba, the addition and the dowry in a complete, clear and public gift, an 


eternal gift, a gift of a healthy person, a gift that cannot be reversed, a definitive and certain gift 


as of now.” Thus said to us this Labwa bt. Ghālib: “Go around the markets


 and in the public areas and make public this gift that it is not hidden nor concealed, 


in my name from this day and forever. This Labwa also accepted that she will maintain her 


older boy, Furayj, for two years fro[m the da]te of this deed in all his needs and his poll tax 


for two years not including his clothing (lit. his cover), and she accepted that she will maintain the younger one, Raḍī, for ten years from the date of 


this deed. She will (pay for) the older one’s studying silversmithing. Aaron will clothe the two, i.e. his children. 


We made the symbolic purchase from Aaron and Labwa, a complete, rigorous purchase as of now, cancelling 


all notifications and conditions on everything written and explicated above. Written between the lines 


in the ninth line: “and she said” and this is its confirmation. Everything is true, correct and established.


Solomon b. Jesse, the Nasī, M(emory of the) R(ighteous be) B(lessed)  Joseph b. Shabbetay, H(is) M(emory to the) W(orld to) C(ome).
 