T-S 8J4.7 recto
Testimony which was given before us—we the witnesses whose signature is at the end of this document:on   which was   of the month of Adar of the year one thousand and three hundred and ninety-fiveyears, according to the count to which we are accustomed, in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on the Nile River. [Thus:]Mr. Moses b. Abraham (who) r(ests in) E(den) came before us and said thus: “Testify on my behalf, and perform a qinyan with me, effective immediately, using all the language of claims, write and sign it and give it to (his) hon(or, our) tea(cher) and m(aster) A[mram]the Elder b. (his) ho(nor,) gr(eatness and) ho(liness, our) tea(cher) and ma(ster) Joseph he-Ḥasid m(ay his) s(oul be) b(ound up) i(n the bond of) l(ife,) in order that he would have a title of right and proof.That took place in accordance with my intention and approval, in the soundness of my mind and body and the freedom of my will, willingly, without duressor force, with neither compulsion, negligence nor error, nor defect therein, nor disease, nor any of the like [from]all the factors which invalidate testimony, rather with a full heart and a desirous spirit, that I transfer to him //effective immediately// fou[r]cubits of land from my portion in the Land of Israel as a complete, clear and publi[c] gift,given and accepted in his hand from this day forward, and appointing him upon them (my) representativeagent, to extract and receive for himself that due me with M(r.) Maḥbūb b. Ḥibān,being a small leather scent-bag which I sent to him by (our) tea(cher) and m(aster,) this Amram //in the amount of their parcel// a deposit with a formal friend (ṣuḥba) of Ḥassūn ha-Levi b.Solomon (who) r(ests in) E(den) in his parcel, and I will take delivery of it (the small leather scent-bag) from this Ḥassūn in al-Maḥdiyya, and therein is golden jewelry (worth) 15 thousandand a purse containing carnelians, beads, lapis lazuli, and crystal, and two Muslim rosaries //of carnelian and teeth,// long ones. Likewise, further, I sent […] to me some of its price and […]
T-S 13J8.12 recto
to him before the payment to me […] unpierced […]he has, in his document and in his reckoning, six dinars and a half. He promised me that he would send it […]after that year, but he did not send me anything neither from the aforementioned six dinars and a halfthe small leather scent-bag which I had sent to him through (our) tea(cher) and m(aster), this Amram, nor from the pre-existing (debt)which was six and a ha(lf), which I sent him by means of (our) tea(cher) and master Nissim b. Solomon (who) r(ests in) E(den).He received all this for himself and benefited therefrom and took them for himself. When I brought (the matter) toadjudication //and I had// established that he take may legal action from now on in the matter, in the court of his choosing, and to announce and to pronounce a banand to fix testimony upon it, and to swear concerning it or to settle however he sees (fit). Likewise, further,I have given him permission to fix a time (for adjudication) and to nullify a time (for adjudication) and to establish legal claims and proofs and to nullify legal claimsand proofs, that which he sees fit is as though I saw it fit. Likewise, I have appointed (our) tea(cher) and m(aster), this Amram, or whomeverhe stands in his place, to deliver all that which he receives from this Mr. Maḥbūb in the sea withone of our fellows. Likewise, I have appointed this Mr. Amram to release this Mr. Maḥbūband guarantee delivery to him on my behalf //therein,// since I have made his receiving (the payment) like my receiving (the payment), and his settlement like my settlement, and his release like my release,and his guarantee of responsibility like my guarantee. Whatever (our) tea(cher) and master, this Amram, does this with this counterparty of mine,M(r.) Maḥbūb, with respect to all //that with which he was entrusted therefrom// is acceptable to me effective immediately. I cannot say to (Mr. Amram), “(I retained you) to fulfill my (agency)and not to misrepresent me.” Likewise, further, I have appointed (our) tea(cher) and master, this Amram //to appoint// whomever he chooses of his (own) will,that which he sees fit is as though I saw it fit, and whomever he appoints as though I, Moses, have appointed him. I am not able to sue (him) foranything he does. Everything that is imposed by the court of law, I accept upon myself, effective immediately, whether for (my) credit or for (my) debt,for this Mr. Amram and for whomever he might appoint and stands in his place. Likewise, further, I have declared (our) tea(cher) and master, this Amramto be trustworthy in his word as two proper witnesses, who is (therefore) not obligated in any oath of anytype, even rider oaths and even ḥerem setam. He is also free from all types of oaths and he is completely free and completely released (from any obligation), both in (my) heart and by means of oral (testament), in this worldand in the world to come. Further, I have declared that effective immediately his agent will be trusted //as two proper witnesses// concerning the matters of this settlement, and I have takenupon myself responsibility for all this—upon myself and upon my heirs after me—for (our) tea(cher) and m(aster), this Amram,and upon his heirs after him, as (this agreement) is not like promises and not like formularies, but rather(bears) the weight and force of documents of the court which the Sages enacted and which are universally followed, from this day forward,forever, nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions which would nullify anything from this power of attorney. We, the witnesses, performed a qinyan with this Mr. Moses b. Abraham and with (our) tea(cher) and master, this Amram b. (his) h(onor,) gr(eatness, and) ho(liness)(our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Joseph the Ḥasid, concerning all that is written and specified above, with an item suitable for doing so.Proper and enduring. We wrote and signed and gave it to (our) tea(cher) and m(aster), this Amram, in order that he would have in his handa title of right and proof. Hanging: “effective immediately” : “if he appoints” : The above is enduring and this is its confirmation. Upon an erasure:“and a judg(ment)” : Enduring and this is its confirmation.