Recto


"The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life."


The servant informs the domicile of the dear


young man, the noble branch, the one who (both) knows (the commandments)


and performs (them), our master and teacher Bera'kho't the wise


scholar and teacher, may his name exist forever;


I inform you that I am very anxious to hear


your happy news, and that I never stop telling about


and asking about your honor everyone who arrives


from your place. When I hear that you are


healthy and well I am very happy. We had


expected your coming on S'abbat Bere'si't.


The "sound one" longs for you and asks about you


constantly. I did intend to come down instead of sending this letter,


and had in mind asking your advice. Know, that this


place does not pay me enough even for the poll-tax, nor for


clothes or living expenses, except for myself, for I get


no more than five (dirhems a week), while I need every day


at least three quarters (of a dirhem) for living expenses,


and I don't earn enough even for washing


a suit of clothes. They did budget for me on (the Day of) Atonement


seventy dirhems in the presence of the elder al-Rashi'd,


but until today I did not receive more


than four dirhems. The elder


"the sound" fulfilled his debt,


both his son Thana'' and also S'e'mu'l and Mus'awwir promised fifty


dirhems but, - as God is my witness, I received


only one dirhem from S'e'mu'l. What shall I do?


To whom shall I speak? "By day the heat consumed me


and my sleep fled from my eyes."


Verso


Our master the chief had promised


(your) servant a year ago today (to pay for me) all of the poll-tax.


A year came and a year went by, and I did not receive


anything from him. So I have become perplexed


in thinking about what I ought to do. "Whither shall I go


from thy spirit?" I do ask you to endeavor


to sell my booklets that (I deposited) with you


as much as you can, or else hand them over to someone


who will travel around with them (trying to sell them). I had sent


with the young man, son of the So'fe'r the grocer


four books and said to him, "hand them over


to the elder Baraka't son of the judge or


to the teacher, the elder Ma'a'li'." I ask


you to endeavor to sell them. Whatever


they yield is from


God and you. Inform your father (of my state)


and greet him; perhaps he could mention your servant


to our master. Let me know what happens.


I have no friends left except


God and you. Don't delay in (settling) my affairs and don't


....... . If you don't arrange it, I will come to live with you in


your house and you will suffer from me. May the letter of my patron


be received by his servant accompanied by something which one may lean


against. Peace. To your father and whoever else is


with you best of peace. May you have peace


and your house have peace. Don't think badly of me.


Your slave Da'u'd son of the H'a've'r from


       Qalyu'b

