Dear and beloved elder and leader, may God prolong your life, never take away your rank, and increase his favors and benefactions to you. 
 
I inform you, my elder, that I have arrived safely. I have written you a letter before, but have seen no answer. Happy preoccupations—I hope. In that letter I provided you with all the necessary information.
 
I loaded nine pieces of antimony (kohl), five in baskets and four in complete pieces, on the boat of Ibn Jubar—may Good keep it; these are for you personally, sent by Musa Ibn al-Majjani.6 On this boat, I have in partnership with you—may God keep you—a load of cast copper, a basket with (copper) fragments,7 and two pieces of antimony. I hope God will grant their safe arrival. Kindly take delivery of everything, my lord.
 
I have also sent with Banana a camel load for you from Ibn al-Majjani, and a camel load for me in partnership with you—may God keep you. He also carries another partnership of mine, namely, with 'Ammar Ibn Yiju, four small jugs (of oil). With Abu Zayd I have a shipload of tin in partnership with Salama al-Mahdawī. Your share in this partnership with him is fifty pounds. I also have seventeen small jugs of s[oap]. I hope they arrive safely. They belong to a man [called . . .]r b. Salmun, who entrusted them to me at his own risk. Also a bundle of hammered copper, belonging to [a Muslim] man from the Maghreb, called Abu Bakr Ibn Rizq Allah. Two other bundles, on one is written Abraham, on the other M[...]. I agreed with the shipowner that he would transport the goods to their destination. I wish my brother Abu Nasr—may God preserve him—to take care of all the goods and carry them to his place until I shall arrive, if God wills. Please sell the tin for me at whatever price God may grant and leave its "purse" (the money received for it) until my arrival. I am ready to travel, but must stay until I can unload the tar and oil from the ships.
 
I have no doubt that you have sent me a letter containing all the quotations. I have learned that the government has seized the oil and that Ibn al-Nafiat has taken the payment upon himself. I hope that this is indeed the case. Please take care of this matter and take from him the price of five skins (filled with oil). The account is with Salama.
Al-Sabbagh of Tripoli has bribed Bu Ί-'Ala the agent, and I shall unload my goods soon. 
 
Kindest regards to your noble self and to my master [. . . and] Abu Ί-Fadl, may God keep them.
 
Abu Ί-Faraj Marwan sends you kindest regards and says to you: "I have with All Ibn Jubar two baskets with liquid storax(?). I ask you, my lord—may God protect you—to order one of your boys to receive them and [to transporjt them to Abu Ja'far Ibn al-Mudallal, the agent. I have not fixed the freight with him, except that he would charge me what he charges others. The textiles were taken by Ben Sara, for he . . . [. . .] and said to me: "I shall take care of the cost of the transport"—the soul knows what is in it.
 
Isma'il Ibn Abi 'Uqba greets you and asks you to receive a shipload of wax for him. It is in the boat of Abu Zayd and a quarter dinar has to be paid for its transport. It was loaded by Khalluf. "Ibn al-Shama," and "Joseph b. Isra'il b. Banuqa" are written on it. Give it (for sale) to any agent you see fit. And peace upon you, may God preserve you.
(P.S., by the copyist:) And I, Daniel Ibn al-Shama, greet my lord and his boys—may God protect you. 
 
Isma'il Ibn Abi 'Uqba has a shipload of corals with Banana, the sailor. You also have four (?) barqalus of wax with Ibn Jubar. (Another line and a short marginal note, both in the second script and mostly illegible, follow here.)
(To) my elder and master Abu Ί-Faraj, may God protect him, Joseph, son of Jacob Ibn 'Awkal.
 
From his old friend Abraham, son of Joseph, (may his) s(oul be at) r(est).