This deposition was made before us, we, the witnesses signing below. This is what happened:
We were present in ʿAydhāb on Tuesday, the 21st of the month of Tevet of the year [   ], when Abū Saʿīd b. Maḥfūz ("Propitious, son of Protected [by God]"), known as Ibn Jamāhir, appeared before the chief of police, launched a complaint against Ṣāfī, the "boy" of the elder Abū Saʿīd b. [...], and appealed for help against him. The chief summoned the slave Ṣāfī, and the aforementioned Abū Saʿīd procured as witnesses Muslims, some of those with whom he used to associate. They testified in favor of Abū Saʿīd that this Ṣāfī made false accusations against him, and that Ṣāfī had said words which cannot be repeated to the aforementioned Abū Saʿīd, that he had called him bad names, saying: "You had a slave girl, made her pregnant, and when she bore you a boy, you abandoned her together with her b[oy] in Berbera." Abū Saʿīd appealed to the chief for help and demanded satisfaction from his adversary Ṣāfī.
Upon this the chief of police sent a herald to assemble th Jews who happened to be in the town and to bring them before him. Some hid themselves, others were brought into his presence by police. When the chief saw that Abū Saʿīd persisted in his demand for satisfaction, he ordered Ṣāfī to be flogged. But Ṣāfī protested, and shouted: "I am the 'boy' of the Rayyis, the head of the yeshiva," while Abū Saʿīd declared: "I shall not renounce my claim." After the flogging, Ṣāfī was put in jail in the presence of his adversary, who had appealed to the chief for help, and in the presence of all the Jews who had come to the audience hall.
Before the flogging of the slave Ṣāfī one of the Maghrebi merchants had gone to the chief's house in order to save the slave. But when Abū Saʿīd Ibn Jamāhir learned that he wanted to save the slave, he began to incite some Muslims against the stranger; they gave him trouble and [threatened] him with fines and other matters, after having made false accusations against him. Ṣāfī was set free from jail only after incurring loss of money.
This is what happened. We wrote it down during the last ten days of the month of Tevet of the year of the Creation in the city of ʿAydhāb, which is situated on the shores of the Great Sea. Written between the lines: the Jews.
Correct, valid, and confirmed.