verso

In the name of the Merciful and Compassionate
For the good memory and rest of the souls of the family of scholars
the illustrious Rabbis, the scholars of Israel and their judges
For the good memory of the distinguished families of the scholars of Israel and their judges
of our Rabbi, his honor, the great and holy, the distinguished, esteemed crown of glory, our master Nahum
the Prince, the Nagid, the Noble, the great benefactor of
the poor and the scholars may the spirit of the Lord give him rest! And his son,
may the memory of the pious be for a blessing! May the memory of his honor be for a blessing!
May the memory of the holy be for a blessing! May the memory of his honor, great and holy, the distinguished, esteemed crown of glory
our Nagid, our master, the Diadem and the Crown, the coronet of our head, the light 
of our eyes and the leader of our generation Shelah, the Fifth in 
the company of the pious, may his memory be blessed, and his son, may the memory of the pious be for a blessing!
May the memory of the righteous be for a blessing! May the memory of the Rav be for a blessing! May the memory of his honor, the great and holy
the distinguished, esteemed crown of glory, our master and Rabbi Zechariahu the Fifth 
in the company of the pious, may his memory be blessed, and his son, 
may the memory of the pious be for a blessing! May the memory of the Rav be for a blessing!
And his honor, the great and holy, the distinguished, esteemed crown of glory, our master and
Rabbi Elijah, may God bless and protect him, Amen
May wellbeing and long life be established, and fulfilment of every wish
and success in every action and all the blessings found
in Twenty-Four books may all of them serve as diadem and crown
and a turban  and a capital, that will be renewed on the head of his honor, the great and holy, the distinguished
our master and Rabbi, the Diadem and the Crown, the coronet of our head, and the light
of our eyes, and the leader of our generation, Berakhot the noble prince
The Nagid of the People of YHWH, may the lord cover him 
bless him, protect him. Let us surround all Israel with all
the blessings. And say Amen. So wrote Berakhot.
