Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
May God prolong the life of the Ikshīl, the Master of the Horses, the vizier of the king,
and cause his support, happiness, safety and wellbeing to endure. The bearer of this letter, who has travelled (to you),
is the leader Ḥasan, the son of the leader Shujāʿ al-Dawla (‘the Courage of the State’) ʾIsḥāq, the administrator of the gate.
His status with me is firmly established and his rank is well-known,
may God decree his safety and cause him to have good company. The one who [ …..]
to you, has a good reputation and is well spoken of, and these are qualities that
are abundantly exhibited by those who come to him (i.e., you, the Ikshīl) and are sent to him. The Ikshīl does not
need my recommendation with regard to him or my reassurances to show him respect
and treat him well, and grant him the status of those of my personal slaves that are similar to him
with regard to care, guardianship, supervision and protection
until the time of waiting for the one who is grateful to the Ikshīl. Whatever
kindness and good he (the Ikshīl) does in his (the bearer of the letter’s) regard, I shall appreciate and be thankful for.
So, may the Ikshīl (send) a letter and do not omit to ask me in it to carry out his needs and to let me know in it
15. the latest news, if God, the Mighty and Glorious, wills it.
16. Praise be to God alone and His blessings on our lord, Muḥammad, His prophet, and his family, and His peace.
Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso, address, right column

To the Ikshīl, Master of the Horses and vizier of the king,
Uruwī ibn Khiyākh, his deputy in the fortress of Ibrīm,
may God cause his safety and wellbeing to endure.

Verso, address, left column

From the sincere and victorious commander [ ]
the Victory of the Kingship, Crown of the Dynasty, Pride [of the Arabs],
Treasure of the Dynasty (Kanz al-Dawla) and its support, brother of the northerners, [the Sword]
of the Commander of the Faithful, ʾAbū Manṣūr [Mutawwaj],
affiliated to al-ʿĀḍid, [the commander of armies].
