Recto 


They report that their father has died [leaving three] .


small [children] and that the head of the police [ ]


their father and their mother. He did not leave money [


in it. He left them a small house, in which they might settle [


from the factory. It was also surrounded and [ ]


He did not work in a government office for one day. He was a tradesman []


He had a brother who was a clerk in the government office known [as] an 


abjectly poor man. The slaves have in their possession .... between him [ ]


his death. On his death they were registered with the aforementioned qāḍī al-qu[ḍāh] ] 


al-Makārim. There was animosity between him and 'Abū Zikrī, the companion of [ ]


and he wanted to do him harm. At that time he drew up documents relating to the payment of a debt in his name that had no 


validity, as he had done for many other people..... Out of fear of punishment 


he wrote a promissory note for six-hundred dInars. He sold all the personal belongings of 


his wife and received gifts from his brother and others until he raised four-hundred dīnārs. 


When ’Abū Zikrī died the penalty for the debt was rescinded, since the government officials 


in this just time knew that it was an injustice. He wanted  them to return


to him what he had paid out, but his death forestalled him. His brother remained alive after him for a time without anything


being demanded from him. The justice of these glorious days will prevent injustice being done to


the slaves and their being required to pay something for which they are not liable. They humbly request


an investigation into their case, so that they may be treated in a just and impartial manner


and they may be granted equality with other people who enjoy justice


and mercy. They further request the issuing of a gracious rescript, with the motto of al-‘Ādil at its head,


(commanding) [[the investigation of]] their release and the restoration of their rights, in order that they may thereby live


a new life, and let it be made known in the lands and the urban settlements, as a just act for them and their right.]


Verso 


[ ] The heirs of ’Abū al-Faḍā’il


[ ] son of Baqā’, the Jewish merchant,


[ ] died on the seventeenth


of Ša‘bān, in the year five-hundred and forty-five.


He left as his heirs three daughters, a servant ... and a wife.


The slaves were not aware of anything until


the head of the police in Fusṭāṭ came to their home together with two witnesses


and they registered all the possessions of the father of the slaves and sealed


them. They did not leave anything for the slaves worth a single dirham


without sealing it, neither in his place of residence nor in the


factory. The slaves did not know the reason for this,


since their father was a merchant who had dealings with merchants


and merchants' representatives. He was well known in this capacity. He had no dealings with government offices,


not even for one day, nor did he undertake to farm taxes for them. The justice of these


glorious days, which has filled the wide lands,


will prevent injustice being done to the slaves. They humbly request


the issuing of the exalted command, may God increase its efficacy, _


in a gracious rescript, headed by the motto of al-‘Ādil, to release them, to restore their father's property to them,


to remove any obstruction (regarding their rights) to the residential property


and the factory, to grant them power to recover


what is owed to them from every one who is in debt to their father,


or other dues, and to prevent anyone removing their rights


and being able to have access to their father's property, so that they may thereby live


a new life, and let it be made known in the lands and the urban settlements,


 
Margin 


as a merciful act for them and a benevolent deed


for them. To the lofty seat


belongs the exalted resolution in this.


 