Recto


God is the best of helpers.


Your servant Omar b. ʿIwaḍ serves the high seat of our master


and lord, my master Ṣadr al-Dīn, may God let him prosper all his days, and informs him


that your servant went to Qalyūb, but did not find the chief of police.


Then your servant met with the "Learned and Practicing" sheikh and he kindly settled


the matter after great exertion. 


We did not find any waxed palm branches, and the green


branches are sold for 70 (dirhems) a thousand.


I paid the waraq dirhems and he took a few branches from each


orchard. I paid him 60 dirhems,


on condition that he transport the palm branches to the (Nile) river. But when I arrived again


in Qalyūb, he still had to bring them to the river, and there they had only


Recto, right margin


a small boat able to carry just a few victuals.


I am sending now a messenger to my lord,


and ask you to send him to the sheikh "The Learned"


with a request that he deliver the palm branches to you,


and you will keep them for your servant in Qalyub.


Verso, address


To the warehouse, to be delivered to the illustrious and
excellent qadi


Ṣadr al-Dīn, who acts there as a notary, may God
always give him success.


Verso, crossed out
(The verso contains also the beginning of the draft of a petition
in Arabic language and Hebrew characters of the dyers in Qalyiib.
The words are crossed out, probably because the clerk realized that
the sheet would not be sufficient for the text dictated to him.)
The servants, the dyers in Qalyiib, kiss the ground and announce
that they perish because of the high price of the wheat, the scarcity
of work, the heavy license fee,7 and the rise of the exchange rate ...
(On the same page there is also a calligraphic trial of the pen:
"Said the KhazarI." "Said the scholar." This shows that in this little
town there was a scribe who tried to copy the theological magnum
opus of the Spanish Hebrew poet Judah ha-Levi. Learned scribes
were often found in small towns, where life was less expensive
than in the big cities. See Med. Soc., 11, 239.)