Recto
In (Your name!)
 
A. DEATH OF THE JUDGE
Just is the Lord in all his ways, etc. (Psalm 145:17)
The righteous man has gone, etc. (Isaiah 51:1)
Comfort, comfort my people, etc. (Isaiah 40:1)
From their father who is yearning after them, Solomon, son of Japheth, (may he) r(est in) E(den).
I am able to express only a fraction of my grief over the passing away of my lord, the illustrious leader, (his) honor), g(reatness, and) h(oliness), our master and teacher Manasse, the wise and prudent judge, whose demise has hurt the hearts and caused pain ot the souls. (May the) m(emory of the) righteous) be blessed). How deeply was I afflicted by his death and by his being taken away from those who relied on him. May God assign him a place with the saints, may he grant consolation to his mourners and heal their wounds and comfort them in his great mercy.
 
B. ESCAPE OF THE FAMILY FROM THE PLAGUE
Would I try to describe the extent of my feelings of longing and yearning for you all the time, my letter would become too long and the words too many. But He who knows the secrets of the heart has the might to bring about relief for each of us by uniting us in joy.
Your precious letters have arrived; I have read and scrutinized them, and was happy to learn from them that you are well and healthy and that you have escaped from those great terrors, the like of which have not been experienced for many generations. Praise be to God for your deliverance and for granting you respite until you might be recompensed in a measure commensurate with your sufferings.
 
C. THE DEDICATED HUSBAND
In your letters you alternately rebuke and offend me or put me to shame and use harsh words all the time. I have not deserved any of this. I swear by God, I do not believe that the heart of anyone traveling away from his wife has remained like mine, all the time and during all the years-from the moment of our separation to the very hour of writing this letter-so constantly thinking of you and yearning after you and regretting to be unable to provide you with what I so much desire: your legal rights on every Sabbath and holiday, and to fulfill all your wishes, great and small, with regard to dresses or food or anything else. And you write about me as if I had forgotten you and would not remember you had it not been for your rebukes, and as if, had you not warned me that the public would reprove me, I would not have thought of you. Put this out of your mind and do not impute such things to me. And fi what you think or say about my dedication to you is the product of your mind, believing that words of rebuke will increase my yearning—no, in such a way God will not let me reach the fulfillment of my hope, although in my heart there is twice as much as I am able to write. But he is able to have us both reach compen- sation for our sufferings and then, when we shall be saved, we shall remember in what situation we are now.
 
D. TRAVEL BEYOND THE COROMANDEL COAST
You rebuke me with regard to the ambergris. You poor ones!!! Had you known how much trouble and expenses I have incurred to get this ambergris for you, you would have said: there is nothing like it in the world. This is the story: After I was resurrected from the dead and had lost all that I carried with me I took a loan of [...] dinars and traveled to countries beyond al-Ma'bar. I checked my accounts"" and found[ I with "the decimals." I took them and paid ot one of our coreligionists who traveled back from a-l Ma'bar to Aden. . . . and for it he bought for you ... (Three lines and the beginning of the words written in the margin are damaged.)
 
E. DRUNK BUT PIOUS
This was my way of life from the moment I left you until I arrived in Aden (and from there to India) and from India back to Aden: Day and night I was constantly drinking, not of my free will, but I conducted myself in an exemplary way and if anyone poked fun in foul speech in my presence, I became furious with him, until he became silent, he and others. I constantly fulfilled what God knows, and cured my soul by fasting during the days and praying during the nights. The congregations in Aden and in India often asked me to lead them in prayer," and I am regarded by them and regard myself as a pious man.