Recto
… we will purchase indigo with it and we will go with it to the port-city of Damietta and […]We will dye it and we will sell and buy with that amount various types of dyes, and we will transact in accordancewith the (established) practice of the people who engage in this business, for the term of one complete year, the beginning of which being the date of this document, the end of which fixed by the laws of partnership (‘isqa). Whatever God, praised be He, facilitates in terms of profit, we, the workers, will receivetwo thirds hereof, and the investor of the commenda will receive one third. Likewise, God forbid, in the case of a loss—after (the investor pays) the expense of the provisionsand (material) costs. We are only entitled to consume out of the partnership assets of this shop our daily provisions for the term of our partnership (shirka) with him, for the aforementioned term. We will ward off treachery and fulfill the trust, doing (the work)by ourselves as we are able to in this business. The aforementioned Elder Ibrahīm said to us:“Perform a qinyan with us and testify concerning me that I have already paid them the aforementioned amountin the manner mentioned above […] In addition to that, I take upon myself that, God forbid,//if// anything happens to this (amount) causing its destruction, something other than a loss in selling or buying,(they) are absolved if (the merchandise) sinks or is stolen or they are compelled (to give it) to the authorities or their agent. They are free from liabilitytherefrom and they are only required to take an oath that they have not been negligent therein.  If there happens to them … … and I will forgive them what would fall as their share therein due to a loss (from buying and selling) from one dinarup to ten (dinars), an effective release effective immediately, a complete release, with (my) mouth and with (my) heart. If they appraisedthe shop and that found that it had depreciated a little, they will send a letter to inform me, and I will let them know what to do therein. If I do not answer concerning its management, the depreciation will not be upon them, rather they will be free from liability from what they losethereafter. The qinyan was executed with each of us, a complete qinyan, with an item suitable for doing so,orally, effective immediately, in accordance with their will, without any sort of duress whatsoever, nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions concerning all that is written and specified above.