48 Recto

 This is a copy of the engagement contract of Abū Manṣūr Ṣemaḥ., son of Rabbānā Japheth [known as] the elder
Abū ʿAlī, the perfumer, to Sitt al-Khāṣṣa, the daughter of the elder Abū ʾl-Barakāt Ibn al-Lebdī.
On Monday, the fifth day of the month of Kislev of the year 1458
 of the era of the documents [November 11, 1146], in Fustāt, Egypt, which is situated on the Nile River and which is under the jurisdiction
 of our lord Samuel, the great Nagid-may his name be forever, M. Ṣemaḥ, the young man, son of M.
and R. Japheth the elder, son of M. and R. Tiqvā, the elder, the Friend of the yeshiva-may he rest in Eden-concluded a match with Sitt al-Khāṣṣa, his fiancee,
a virgin, the daughter of M. and R. Berakhōt, the elder-may he rest in Eden. His obligation is a first instalment of 40
 certified dinars, to be given as a gift at the time of the wedding, and a final instalment of 100 certified
 dinars. Abū Manṣūr Ṣemaḥ, the fiance, presented the 40 dinars of the first instalment,
 and the elder Abū ʾl-ʿAlā Musallam, the perfumer, son of Sahl, received them from him. The wedding is set for the month of
 Kislev of the coming year-may we be destined for life in it-which is the year 1459. Ṣemaḥ assumed these obligations toward Sitt al-Khāṣṣa: She
will be regarded as trustworthy in all that concerns food and drink
in the house, no suspicion may be cast upon her, nor can he demand from her an oath concerning any of these
 things, not even a supplementary oath. He may not marry another woman, nor retain
 a maidservant whom she dislikes. Should he do any of these things, the final instalment is hers, and he must
 release her [from the marriage bond by divorce]. In the case that there are no children, half of what remains of the dowry returns to her family. She may choose the place
and the domicile where she wishes to live. The rent of her properties is hers, she may spend it for whatever purpose she prefers;
 he has no say in the matter. Should he nullify this engagement contract and not
marry her during the said Kislev, she will receive 20 dinars. This is a debt
and an obligation, binding [as from now]. We made the symbolic purchase from M. Ṣemaḥ, the young man, for Sitt al-Khāṣṣa, the fiancee,
according to all that is recorded above, a purchase which is definite and strict, made with the proper object for such a transaction.
We also made the symbolic purchase from Sitt al-Sāda, the daughter of the elder Abū Naṣr, the physician, the mother of Sitt
 al-Khāṣṣa, the fiancee, in the most rigorous terms, binding as from now: Should her
daughter Sitt al-Khāṣṣa nullify the engagement contract and refuse to marry
 the fiance during the said month of Kislev, she would owe the fiance
 20 [dinars ... J This has taken place after the verification of her identity.
 Signatures: Mevōrākh b. Solomon [of] b[lessed] m[emory]. Sadaqa b [.

 
47 recto, main column


The Estimate 


a pair of inlaid earrings 5 dinars


a gold tiara inlaid with pearls 70


a pair of pins with clusters of pearls, enameled,


and inlaid with pearls 20


a pair of inlaid pins 3


a wristband 6


a pair of niello-work bracelets 28


a tannūr inlaid with pearls 6


a bracelet of pearls with gold luster 4


four gold rings 6


a choker of pearls 3


an amber maymūn necklace 6


an ornamented mirror 8


two crystal kohl containers 3


a silver jewel box and two silver kohl containers


and a kohl stick 3


(18-19) Total 171 dinars

 

a white brocaded festive robe, and its wimple 20 dinars


a pomegranate-colored festive robe, and its wimple 15


a jūkāniyya of fine white dabīqī linen and a scarf of dabīqī linen 5


a kerchief of blue dabīqī and a blue scarf 8


a jūkāniyya of cloud-colored dabīqī and a cloud-colored hood 8


a gown with ḥamāʾilī ornaments and a Maghrebi veil 5


a kerchief of white dabīqī linen and a greyish headband 10


a broad belt and a scarf 3


a basket cover and two covers for cooling jars 8


a silk wimple with ḥamāʾilī ornaments 2


 
47 recto, marginal column 1


a dabīqī wrap in two pieces and a pearl-colored veil with gold threads 11


a bedspread with lozenge decorations and a pearl-colored veil 5


a cloud-colored chest cover with gold threads and a bureau cover


and a serving-tray cover 8


thirteen pieces of clothing and two coffers with silk 16


eight collars 6


brocade bags and two mijnab curtains 30


two new dabīqī maqṭaʿ 6


a brocade handbag 15


 
47 recto, marginal column 2

a brocade sofa, six pieces 25
a brocade couch, five pieces 7
 a Tabarī sofa from Tabaristān, five pieces [2 dinars] 4
a Tabaristān couch, three pieces 2
a pair of susanjird pillows 8
a pair of pomegranate-colored pillows of fine
linen and a grey-colored pair and a green pair 5
a pair of pillows of dabīqī linen 3
a pad of white dabīqī linen and one of blue dabīqī
and four sleeping pillows 5
a brocade bedspread and a saffron wrap 10

 