Recto

I am writing, may God prolong the existence of my lord the elder and make eternal his glory,
support, happiness and wellbeing, from Alexandria on Sunday,
with 8 days remaining in the month of [...], may God conclude it for you and for us in the most favorable manner, in a state of
wellbeing and health; may God bring near the time of a meeting between us in the most favorable
of circumstances. I have already informed you, my lord, that I have previously sent you a letter in which I communicated to you
the situation with respect to the 13 purses that I have with me: they are finished, praise be to God.
Among them was a purse on which was written the name of Yūsuf [b. Barhun?], and a second, 
mixed purse with your name and his name on it; and a third purse upon which
is written, "From Mūsā b. Yaḥyā." I do not know, my lord,
to whom this last bag belongs. In your letter, inform me to whom this third purse belongs. I asked,
my lord, in my previous letter that you purchase for me
sandals with two straps (zimāmayn), and also for Abū ʿImrān and Abū l-Faḍl.
Before I travelled (from Cairo to Alexandria), you said to me: "I will have
a pair of rural (rīfī) sandals made for you." Please send them. Also, purchase for me
a raṭl of pepper, a raṭl of cinnamon, two quires (dastayn) of paper, bayān ink,
and an inkstand [     ]. They should be round, so that they can be used for a leather bag.
I would like, my lord, for you to acquire these items one at a time, until I have received them all.
On this very day, the barge (qārib) of Ibn Mulayka arrived
from Lukk (eastern Libya). He (the captain of the vessel?) mentioned that the amīr Jubbāra returned the ship and all
the heavy cargo that he had removed to Barqa. I hope that this information is correct.
I ask God to reunite all those who had goods in this ship with their goods.
Prior to his departure, Ibn ʿUqbān left me instructions to dispatch one-sixth [...]. 
I have learned that the [...] that I sent with him the elder Abu Saʿd
has done something that distresses him. By God, this has greatly distressed me.

Recto - right margin

I would like you, my lord, to send
me these items,
for I am in need of them. 
I am walking around barefoot.
Please let me know how much
you fetched for the
wrap (mayzar). If
my lord has
any requests

Recto - top margin

please honor me with their execution.
I send you my best 
regards. 

Verso

My best regards to my lord the Rav; tell him
of my yearning for him. Likewise, to my lord the elder Abū Zikrī.  Tell him
the story of the ship. I hope it is correct. Peace.

Verso - address


To my lord the elder Abū Yaḥyā Nahray b. Nissim, 


may God prolong his existence and make his glory eternal, 


1. from the one who is grateful to him, Marduk 
2. b. Musa, may his resting place be Eden.