Recto
On Tuesday the fourth of the month of Av1473 (of the Era) of Documents, in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on the Nile River, jurisdiction of his glorious excellency, diadem of beauty, (his) honor,greatness (and) holiness, our teacher and our master, inimitable in our generation, our prince and prince of God among us, our lord Nathaniel ha-Levi, “Israel’s chariots and horsemen,” may his name endure forever, m(aster) Samuel the Elder b. Solomon the Elder (who) r(ests in) E(den) and M(r.) Eleazar the Elder b. M(r.) Isaac the Elder (who) r(ests in) E(den), appeared before the session (of the court)of his excellency our lord, inimitable in our generation, may his name endure forever, and M(r.)Samuel advanced a claim upon M(r.) Eleazar for what was recorded as follows:M(r.) Samuel said, “I agree that  between me and between the aforementioned M(r.) Eleazar there wasa partnership (shirka) in silk, its total value being one hundred and fifty dinars. I contributed fifty-five dinars from that amount, and he contributed ninety-five dinars. Together, we bought silk with the aforementioned total amount as we had agreed, namely that the profit would be split: one third for meand two thirds would be for him.” M(r.) Samuel said that his partner M(r.) Eleazarsold some of the aforementioned silk to Joseph b. al-Karrām for fifty-four dinars, and its price came to him. “I also soldsome of the silk for forty-seven dinars, of which I transferred toM(r.) Eleazar twenty-seven dinars, and the remainder was twenty dinars which remained with ‘the workers’ (al-mu‘āmilīn) outside ofSammanūd.” Then he said in the very same (court) session that debts demanded his travel to the town of Tyre, and he agreed todivision of the remainder of the aforementioned silk, then the two of them divided it
Verso
according to its total, and each of them took his portion of the silk which was on hand.   My remaining obligation was the aforementioned twenty dinars heldin al-Maḥalla. When we dispatched (a letter) for his withdrawal (of the funds) from my (account), the document of his partner M(r.) Eleazar reached him, saying that he had erred concerning the gold which was with him.     Then M(r.) Eleazar, who is the aforementioned Manṣūr al-Dimashqī, was asked about the opinion of his counterparty, and he said that the fifty dinars were collected and received in the leather bag, in which he and his partner had the rightof unilateral disposition, likewise, concerning the twenty-seven dinars.He attested to splitting the (remaining) silk, and each of themtook his share of the aforementioned silk into his possession, and this (statement) was(supported by) others. Then // Manṣūr said// … Samuel went to al-Maḥallaso that I would pay that which was due him exclusively, because the twentyremaining dinars had not come at the time of their payment, and he returnedfrom al-Maḥalla and went to travel again on Sunday to al-Maḥalla //again on the day …// his exit, the leather bag disappeared and I found that they lacked sixty-sixdinars.   When the court asked m(aster) Samuel regardingthe twenty dinars which he said remained with theworkers, //had he taken them upon himself …// and he said that he received them himself at the time of the silk distribution.In the same court session, m(aster) Samuel saidthat the two of them, at the time of the silk distribution, reckoned a gainof twelve dinars’ profit, and it was turned over to him along with the totalof what was collected. Abū Manṣūr al-Dimashqī said in the session (of the court)