Recto


(1-2) …. 24 months, beginning on the month (in which) the deeds of lease held by him (were written), which is the month of Marheshwan
 
of the year 1506 of the documents, corresponding to Dhūʾl-qaʿda
(4-7) of the year 590 of the Arabic calendar, the sum of the rent being 160 dir. This we accepted and rented the said qāʿa to him for the said two years, for 160 dir., as mentioned above. This is a lease that is sound, complete, absolute, decided, and valid, binding on
 
 
 
(8-9) the said al-ʿaniyīm and whoever will appear in their name, to the said al-Shaykh Abūʾl-Surūr and his heirs after him. About this (deed), there will be no pretext that could make it unsound; no subterfuge
 
(10-13) could abolish, no condition unbind it. So we stipulate upon this al-Shaykh Abūʾl-Surūr that he shall not install any distiller of rose water, nor any mrḥq(?), nor arsenic, nor anything else of any other crafts that need the kindling of fIre to do them, in the said qāʿa, during the whole period of his renting it; since it is on these
 
 
 
conditions that we rented him the said qāʿa that is nowadays included in the property of ʿaniyē miṣrayim.
Here attached and sound, according to the text. And everything is proper, sound, and valid.
Validated by Samuel ha-Levi b. R. Saadya, of blessed memory.
Menashē b. R ….  

Verso


the lane of the Synagogue of the Palestinians,
may it soon be rebuilt and reestablished, known
as Dār b. Baqā and Shālōm,
Samuel ha-Levi b. R. Saadya, of blessed memory.
(5-6) Also, collected from al-Shaykh Abūʾl-Surūr, 1¼ ⅙ dinars,
 
paid to al-Qaʿnī b. al-Muqarqish
on account of the balance due him for the repairs.
Also, collected from him the 2 dinars left
on account of the sum he borrowed to make repairs
with in the compound mentioned above.
Samuel ha-Levi.
Also, collected from him 2 dinars
on account of (the sum used to make) the repairs in the ṭabaqa,
the largest of the ṭabaqas of the funduq.
Also, collected from him, 2 dinars,
the balance of his debt  to the end
of the month Av, may it be transformed into joy, of the year 1510,
corresponding to Shawwāl of the year [5]95.
Samuel ha-Levi.  
