
The least of the servants of my lord,
Meir b. al-Hamadhānī
“But the lowly shall inherit the land and delight in abundant well-being.” [Psalms 37:11]
“Mark the blameless, note the upright, for there is a future for the man of integrity.” [Psalms 37:37]
“Let me hear what God, the Lord, will speak; He will promise well-being [to his people].” [Psalms 85:9]
“The Lord bestow His favor upon you and grant you peace!” [Num. 6:26]
May the many salutations, flowing from the four rivers of Paradise, supported by God’s 
victorious right hand, and the abundant blessings written 
in the Torah, the Mishnah, and the Gemara all be a crown of 
majesty upon the head of his eminent dignity, diadem of glory, 
our master and teacher, crown of our heads, Moses, the leading prince, 
perfect as a full moon, the distinguished judge, 
may our God preserve him and may the Holy One succor him, 
raise his fortune and banner on high, fulfill all his needs, give life to his son, 
and permit him to witness his joy and marriage. May (God) place (his son) upon his seat in his lifetime, and have him take the 
place of his sacred ancestors. May he fulfill for him the words of Scripture, 
"Your sons will succeed your ancestors; you will appoint them princes throughout the land.” Amen. Selah. Your servant kisses 
the earth before the majlis of the lord, the most majestic head, man of knowledge and action, 
the competent elder, may the star of his fortune never sink, and may his luck be forever
resplendent. May his success exceed his wish, and may blessings follow 
his undertakings as he desires. May greetings for this felicitous 
holiday of Passover reach him. May the Holy One, blessed be He, grant him delightful years,
"to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, to frequent His temple.” And may he have the privilege of eating the Passover sacrifices 
which shall be accepted by the Lord's altar with rejoicing, 
he and his son and all his associates. Amen Selah. And (your servant) conveys his great 
desire (to gaze upon) the freshness of his (lord’s) happy countenance, 
his yearning for his fragrance, and his sorrow for forfeiting the harvest of his pearls of wisdom, the privilege of kissing the carpet of his 
audience hall, basking in the luminance of his precious gems, and relishing his company-
what the tongue cannot describe nor the hand set down in writing. 
May he continue to be well and secure as long as time lasts, and (may God) preserve him from vicissitudes. Our lord knows, 
may God the exalted give him success, that human souls naturally seek 
to ascend, and strive to accede 
to the ultimate abodes of transition and eternity. They wish 
this when the paths are pure and the passes secure, and strive 
their utmost. And their Lord succeeds their way and guides them. 
In view of the above, the son of your servant, Abū Manṣūr 
has had the notion to join (our) lord, to enjoy the privilege of 
his proximity and to become one of his assistants. For he found out that al-Shaykh 
al-Talmid al-Zakī, the nephew of (our) lord, may God preserve him, has gone 
elsewhere. If not for this, (Abū Manṣūr) would not dare 
broach this matter. Who can don the garment of the proud and who can follow his ways? 
If the lord desires to have him and responds favorably to his request and accepts him, let him favor him 
with a note from his audience hall, so that (Abū Manṣūr) may present himself to him, in order that
his responsibilities may be decided, with the help of the Almighty. And he will follow what they order him to do. 
Whatever arrangement there was with al-Shaykh al-Zakī he will surpass, and this is his aim... 
