Recto - main text

Thankful of his kindnesses,

Bū ʿAlī b. Bū ʿUmar. 


In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.


My letter (to you)—may God give long life to your excellency, my lord, the most illustrious sheikh, the master, and prolong


His support of you, your elevated position, high rank and prominent station, and not deny you


His gift of superior success, crush those envious of you and destroy your enemies!—is to enquire about information


concerning your situation and news about you, and the conduct of your affairs—may God, may His praise be glorified, conduct them as


you choose and to attain your goals! Were I to proceed to explain in detail even part of the


longing and yearning for you, which I feel, the letter would not encompass it nor would speech contain it.


But I pray to Him whose power and might are to be glorified to grant


quickly that I be reunited with you in the best of circumstances, in fulfillment of the most excellent hopes


soon, God, the Exalted, willing. This is to inform you, my dear son—may [God, the Exalted,] streng[then you]!—


that I wrote you (pl.) a number of letters, but I have not received any answer from you (pl.). However,


I know of news of you (pl.), but hear it only from (other) people. The situation, which I am undergoing,


namely the dearth of my possessions, is not something, which can be described, because of heartache


and how little I have. I remained perplexed by my situation, until I received from


Sheikh Khalaf b. Maḍmūn thirty dinars, delivered by Sheikh Abu ʾl-ʿAlā b.


Abū Naṣr . He is urging me to set out on a journey. I purchased the requisite


provisions for travel; then the Ghuzz swept down and plundered Minya. We departed naked, without


a covering. I remained with a brick under my head, hungry, passing the night in grief, worn out.


Thank God, had my life been in my hands, I would have given it up.


But Ibn Maḍmūn heard


of my dire situation and sent me letters, in which he said, “I have been afflicted by the same thing that you are enduring.


Set out and come up to me.” He (Khalaf b. Maḍmūn) informed me what had happened to the girl (‘the little one’) with


Abū ʿImrān, namely the hardships she had suffered with him. Had it not been for God and the assistance of the Sheikh (Khalaf),


who looked after her rights, she would have been lost. Their crisis reached the sultan, and Bū ʿImrān


converted to Islam. The malice between them increased, and he divorced her.


 
 
Recto - right margin
Recto, Right Margin:


She remained with him in the best possible situation. Nothing remains for me but the journey. I traveled to ʿAydhāb, terrified and frightened by the ill-fated trip, but God


decreed my safe arrival. Now I intend to set out for India. May God, may He be praised, make the outcome good again! Everything that I have heard about what you (pl.) are undergoing and your circumstances


increased my distress over you.


 
Verso - main text
 


Do not cut me off from news about you. I am traveling in faraway places. I hope that we shall be able to be


in one town until God decrees the appointed time (death) for me or for you. By God, by God, do


no cut off (sg. f.) your letters from me. We will not be reunited unless God wills. Accept for yourself (sg. f.)


profuse wishes for your complete well-being. And profuse wishes for Sheikh Abu ʾl-Maḥāsin’s complete well-being. And Peace.


And Abū ʿUmar sends everyone profuse wishes for complete well-being.


 
Verso - address, upside down

(To) His excellency, my dear son, master

Abu ʾl-Maḥāsin b. Abū ʿAlī. May his grace be permanent!}


 