Recto 
29. Regarding Ibrāhīm b. Fadānj and Ibrāhīm b. al-Harūnī, they arrived in 
30. Jerusalem from the Christian lands (bilād al-rūm: Byzantium) after the suffering  they endured, as you know. When Ibn 
31. Fadānj arrived in Ramallah with his wife and children, poor captives,before reaching Jerusalem the people of Toledo  had 
32. the bright idea of reporting them to the Karaites because his wife was forbidden to him. As soon as I received news of this
 
Right Margin 


I contacted them 


which caused 


a stir amongst them and I curse 


whoever had spread word of  this affair 


because I


knew that it would reach the 


Karaites. 


When they got  to 


Jerusalem they went up to 


Samareitike and stayed with them, 


they became one of them, 


they lived amongst them, 


they were taken into 


a home and treated 


well. After


they had stayed with them for 


about two years they  spread 


word of the affair to the Karaite authorities, asserting 


 that he was  staying with / his wife which was forbidden 


according to their doctrines. 


They intended to separate 


the two of them and as soon as 


I found out about  it 


I lodged a complaint 


and, amongst us, this created 


 a controversy 


Verso


I then updated our lord, the president of the court, about the poor captive woman and he sent a message to the Karaites that said 


that he could only divorce her according to the doctrine by which he had entered into marriage with her and that his marriage certificate had been issued by the rabbis.  


He would pay her dowry and then he would divorce her. I continued to  follow the matter until the rabbis received him 


 and he stayed with them along with his wife and children, Abū Zikrī, Yosef, Mūsā and Ḥalwa. They lodged in a house 


amongst the Rabbinites and they treated him well, they lacked for nothing and although they did not want to take them in 


because, as Rabbinites, they had become Karaites and had stayed with them for  two years. When I saw what they wanted 


to do with the poor woman, to separate her from her husband, making the children orphans in the world, at a time of hardship 


and famine, I did for them what God will reward me for. Now he, the aforementioned Ibrāhīm, has gone 


with his son to a village in the Levant, near Jerusalem where they have a shop that provides them with sustenance. 


They are well, respected and nobody is of the opinion  that there is evidence by which the two sisters are prohibited to him after  


death. To this day, none of their specialists can offer proof that there is  another possibility in his case except to affirm that this 


was customary with Anan, their leader, and the ancient Karaites, without getting tangled up in  thorn bushes that should not be torn up. When 


they saw that Ibn Fadānj  fled from them and returned to the Rabbinites, similar to he who said: I return  to my first 


husband because I was better then than now (Hosea 2:9), they  slackened the rope and excused the matter of Jacob, fearing that 


he would  leave them as well. He stayed with his wife, although they took testimony  from him that he would separate from her, which 


I did not command nor did it enter my mind (Jeremiah 7:31). I am updating you about this, my sister, so that you show his brother, my lord Mūsā


al-Falmiqī, my letter. If I were not writing in such an improvised  manner, I would have written to tell him so. 


 