Recto


The testimony which took place before us, we, the undersigned, thus: ʿAmāʾim bt. Mr. Berakhot, 


the elder, m(ay he rest in) E(den), mentioned in this ketubba, came before us and called upon us to witness concerning her with neither duress, nor 


force nor compulsion, that she has received and accepted all of the dowry ascribed to her as owed by 


her husband, Mr. Solomon ha-Kohen b. ʿObadya ha-Kohen, m(ay he rest in) E(den), in this ketubba except for three items 


and no more. These items are: the copper lamp, the bucket, and the embroidered Iranian pillow.  She released him, 


as of now, as long as he lives and his heirs after him, from any attachment, demand and responsibility she is 


owed by him in this matter, and from any demand over belayot or over any item, and from all oaths and even a general 


ban, a complete and total release. Nothing of the dowry which she brought into the marriage contained in this 


ketubba remains as his debt to her, except these three items, nothing more. 


They remain as his debt to her with the rest of her delayed marriage gift, since she did not relinquish any of it, because it was 


with his desire and will that he gave her the aforementioned dowry items. We made the symbolic purchase about this, 


after affirming her identity, with a complete and rigorous purchase with an instrument fitting for purchase, as of now, 


cancelling any notifications and conditions. The one who verified her identity to us was Faḍāʾil son of Abū Saʿīd, 


may (the Rock) pre(serve him), b. Yakhīn, the cantor, m(ay he rest in) E(den).  Then, we also made the symbolic purchase from her husband, the aforementioned Mr. Solomon ha-Kohen, with a 


complete and rigorous purchase with an instrument fitting for purchase, as of now, cancelling any notifications and conditions that he will not 


deprive her of any of her delayed marriage gift. All of it remains as his debt to her with the 


three items mentioned above. He gave her the the dowry items willingly, from which 


she has now released him. She has full disposition (taṣarruf) with it (i.e. the dowry items) as she chooses. No 


attachment to it (i.e. to the dowry items) nor objection remains for him against her. He will not beat her and will keep good companionship 


with her. We wrote and signed this testimony so it will be for both of them a proof and evidence. We have also registered 


the symbolic purchase from both of them in a deed given to the aforementioned Mr. Solomon ha-Kohen. 


All this took place in the last ten days of the month of Ṭevet, 1443AG (=1132CE), 


according to the dating of deeds, in Fustat-Mitzrayim situated upon the River Nile under the authority 


of our lord Maṣliaḥ ha-Kohen, head of the Academy of the Pride (Gaon) of Jacob, may he live forever. True, clear and established.


Nathan ha-Kohen b. Solomom ha-Kohen, m(ay he rest in the) G(arden of) E(den). M(onth of) Ṭ(evet) y(ear) 1443AG (=1132AD).
Meshullam b. Menasse, he-ḥaver, (may his) E(nd be) G(ood).
Nathan b. Samuel, he-ḥaver, (the) M(emory of the) R(ighteous be) B(lessed).
 