recto

In the name of God the Merciful and Compassionate.
This is what Muḥammad, known as ʾAbū ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʾIsmaʿīl ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʾIbrāhīm ibn Ḥusayn {ibn ʾIbrāhīm} ibn ʾAṣfar ibn Maymūn ibn Baydūs ibn Basūn, granted to ʾUmm al-Ḥasan ʾibnat ʿAlī ibn ʾAḥmad ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʾIbrāhīm
ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʾAṣfar ibn Maymūn ibn Baydūs ibn Basūn and married her with it [ ]. He granted to her twenty-three dīnārs, of standard weight, gold, in valid minted coins of full weight, Egyptian (dīnārs) of al-Mustanṣir,
of good alloy, on the understanding that eight dīnārs of that (sum) of the quality mentioned in this document will be a sum due for immediate payment. He paid that to her and she received it from him, completely and in full, according to its correct weight and quality. She released him from it with a release of receipt in full;
and on the understanding that the remainder of that, which is fifteen dīnārs of the quality mentioned in this document is postponed as a debt owed by him to her until the passing of five full consecutive years, the beginning of the first of which is the twenty-third day of the month
of Rabīʿ I of the year four-hundred and eighty-four (15th May 1091 AD). He is obliged to fear God, the Mighty and Glorious, with regard to her, to act as a good companion and partner for her in kindness, as God, praise be to Him, has commanded in His Book, and the tradition of His prophet, Muḥammad, may God bless him
and his pure family, and may He save (them). Her duty to him is like his duty to her in this matter and one degree more. The carrying out of her marriage to him by this endowment from him, the amount that is immediately payable and the amount that is postponed, mentioned in this document, has been entrusted to
the noble preacher ʾAbū ʿAlī Muḥammad ibn Ḥaydara ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn al-Ḥasan al-Ḥusaynī. Her act of appointing him as her representative for this was by the testimony of those who declare this in their testimony in this document; together with their testimony that she received the immediate payment
of her aforementioned bride price and accepted to postpone the part that is to be postponed to the appointed time. On this day she is a virgin woman, legally of age,sound of mind and body. The groom named in this document accepted from the representative (of the bride) named with him in it the contract of marriage
mentioned in this document on the condition of the aforementioned endowment, the portion that is immediately payable of it and the portion that is postponed, and agreed to it, after they discussed the matter. Witnesses witnessed the acknowledgement by the two spouses and the bride’s representative named in this document
of everything that is in it, in sound mind and body, legally capable of conducting their affairs, willingly, not forced. That was in the month of Rabīʿ I of the year four-hundred and eighty-four (May 1091 AD);
after the noble judge ʾAbū Turāb Ḥaydara ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn al-Ḥasan al-Ḥusaynī, deputising for his son, the noble judge, leader of the Ṭālibids in the southern sector of Upper Egypt, ʾAbū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Ḥaydara ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn
al-Ḥasan al-Ḥusaynī, responsible for jurisdiction in Aswan, gave permission to his son, the noble preacher, ʾAbū ʿAlī Muḥammad ibn Ḥaydara ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn al-Ḥasan al-Ḥusaynī, the bride’s representative named in this document, to contract this marriage between the spouses mentioned in it. That was witnessed.
An insertion was made between two lines with the text ‘over the jurisdiction in Aswan’.

 
recto, witness clauses

Aḥmad ibn Muḥammad ibn Yaḥyā ibn Maḥmūd ibn al-Sharīf witnessed the acknowledgement
by the bride’s representative and the groom named in this document. He wrote in his own hand on its date.
Al-Ḥasan ibn Muḥammad ibn Mahdī witnessed the acknowledgement
by the bride’s representative and the groom of what is in it. He wrote in his own hand on the date.
Al-Ḥusayn ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn ʾIsḥāq ibn Naṣr witnessed the acknowledgement by the bride’s representative and the groom named in this document of what is attributed to them in it. He wrote in his own hand on the date.
Ḥaydara ibn ʿAlī ibn Muḥammad witnessed the acknowledgement
by the bride’s representative and the groom of what is in it. He wrote in his own hand on its date.
Muḥammad ibn ʿAlī ibn ʿAbd al-Raḥmān ibn Bū al-Ḵayr
witnessed the acknowledgement by the two spouses and the bride’s representative of what is in it on its date.
ʿAbd al-ʿAzīz ibn Ḥusnūn ibn ʿAlī witnessed the acknowledgement by the two spouses
and the bride’s representative named in this document of what is attributed to them, on its date.
Al-Ḥasan ibn ʿAlī ibn Zayd witnessed the acknowledgement by the bride’s representative and the groom
of what is in it. He wrote in his own hand on the date.
ʿAlī ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Rabīʿ witnessed the acknowledgement
by the bride’s representative and the groom of what is in it. He wrote in his own hand on its date.

verso

In the name of God the Merciful and Compassionate.
ʿAbd al-Ḥusayn ibn Muḥammad, known as Bū ʿAbd Allāh, ibn ʾIsmaʿīl ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʾAṣfar acknowledged and called witnesses to witness him, while he is healthy inmind and body and legally capable
of conducting his affairs, willing and unforced, that he has received from his father, Muḥammad, known as Bū ʿAbd Allāh, ibn ʾIsmaʿīl ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʾAṣfar four and a half dīnārs,
coins of full weight and good alloy, this being everything that is apportioned to him by right of his inheritance from his mother, ʾUmm al-Ḥasan ʾibnat ʿAlī ibn ʾAḥmad ibn Ḥusayn, of the postponed portion of her bridal gift,
which is certified as being owed to her by his father on the recto; and he released him from that with a release that is valid, binding and has legal force, a release of receiving in full; and he (the son) was no longer owed by him (the father)
with regard to his share of the aforementioned postponed portion (of the dowry) any right, small or large, claim or demand, in any way; and the one acknowledged to (the father) accepted from him
this acknowledgement and was satisfied with it, after they had negotiated concerning it. Witnesses testified to the acknowledgement of the acknowledger of the receipt, who released (from liability), and of the one acknowledged to, who accepted it,
who are named in this document, with regard to everything that was attributed to them in it, they (the parties) being healthy, legally capable of conducting their affairs and willing, on the twenty-first day of Shaʿbān
of the year five-hundred and sixteen (25th October 1122 AD).
