Recto

In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate.
I am writing, my lord and master — may God prolong your existance, make eternal your glory, smite your enemies, protect me 
from all evil, redeem you and inscribe you for wellbeing and health, praise be to God, lord of the universe — longing for you, may God bring us together
in the happiest of circumstances in his benificence. Your letter arrived, my lord, at the moment when they set sail (Goitein: the Nile ships) after
they had said it was lost, and I took it very hard. When it arrived, there was no relief in it. I attached no importance to ...
You mentioned that the letter didn't reach you until Sunday at noon. This is the deed of Farjūn, may God banish
his name and cut short his days (on earth). He is the one who delayed me until noon with all this sluggishness when they (the ships) arrived.
on Friday at noon. He took the letter. If only he had left/let them, curse him (al-malʿūn), since they were working on their account (ʿalā rasmihim). But instead, he
wanted to conduct his dealings on the pretense that he was working on my account until he loaded his goods. May God curse him today and every day.
You wrote that the honey was missing, but you did not write whether the jars were full or missing, full to the brim
like the previous ones, up to their necks. I asked you to inform me whether the sacks containing the wax
that was sent with Qūrīl had five pieces of wax or not. I would like to ask you, please, to sell everything however you can (at whatever price you can obtain)
Don't neglect anything. What my lord mentioned in the matter of the mulḥam (cloth) and the [ ], the message [or the threads?] in it are long. It was reiterated
to him that I would buy it for a dirham and sell for two-thirds (of a dinar).

Verso

You mention that Farjūn, may God curse him, indicated that you should not buy it. I swear by my life, he is an expert in trade?!
The ship's crew didn't delay me at all. They packed in my things and were done with it, so don't worry. Let me know
if the first jars of honey were full up to the neck and the latter ones up to their heads. Please, my lord, sell this 
wax and honey and the ..., and let me know the accounting and the quantity. I read the finest greeetings to my lord.
If money comes in, send this account, the other (accounts), the sacks, the locks, and ream (dast) of Damascus paper and the good, if possible.

Verso - address

[To] my lord and master Abū Bishr and Abū Yaʿaqov, may God lengthen their existence and make their glory eternal, 
Yaʿaqov ibn Yūsuf and Yūsuf ibn Yaʿaqov. From Yiṣḥaq Ibn Janūn.
