verso

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
This is what Ghalyūn ibn Sulaymān al-Kanzī bought from
Fakhr ibn Furayj ibn Mīnā al-ʾIsamnāwī. He bought from him
with one clapping of the hands and one contract seven cubits,
(measured) in the cubit of the elbow, held in common, of all the land known as
Shabb Shalūl in the east opposite the village known
as Murwā. Its southern boundary extends to a piece of land known (by the name) of the aforementioned purchaser
recently. Its northern boundary extends to the house
of ʿAwn and Muḥammad and ʿUbayd Allāh, the sons of ʿAbd Allāh ibn Maʿbad, and their partners.
The eastern boundary extends to the desert. The western boundary extends
to the Nile. This includes all its rights, small and big, and the right to drink,
namely from its water well, by which it is irrigated, and every right relating to
to what is inside it, and every right relating to what is outside it; and the passage to
all of it safely is included in its rights. (He bought it) for one dīnār, of standard weight,
of gold, in minted coin, valid full weight, according to the Egyptian weight of al-Ḥāfiẓ,
of good alloy; a purchase without a condition that would invalidate it or a promise
that would make it void. He received it from him and took possession of it and it passed into his hand,
his ownership, his possession and his property, by the aforementioned purchase.
He delivered to him the aforementioned price, with its specified weight, and he released him
from that, a release of receipt in full, according to the requirements of the condition
of sale of the Muslims, and their warranties and stipulations, with an operative, effective
and valid sale; after the two had reached agreement and taken
upon themselves its obligation, and put it into effect, while in sound mind
and body, legally capable of conducting their affairs, acting willingly, not forced.
This was in the first ten days of the month of Rajab, the year five-hundred and thirty-five (February 1141 AD).

verso, witness clauses

(1-2) ʾAmākī ibn ʾAbrām witnessed
 
the acknowledgement by the seller and buyer
of all that is attributed to them in it.
It was written on his behalf in his presence on its date.
Mubārak, the freedman of the most powerful commander, Saʿd al-Dawla, witnessed
the acknowledgement by the seller
and buyer of all that is attributed to them in it. It was written
on his behalf, by his instruction and in his presence on its date.
Shudā ibn ʾAbrām witnessed the acknowledgement by the seller
and the buyer mentioned with him of all that is attributed to them in it. It was written on his behalf in his presence.
Angeshoura ibn Merki witnessed the acknowledgement by the seller and the buye
named with him of all that is attributed to them in it. It was written on his behalf in his presence on its date.
Andrea ibn ʾIstaruskurā witnessed the acknowledgement by the seller
and the buyer of all that is attributed to them in it. It was written on his behalf in his presence on its date.
