Recto


(1-2) Record of the testimony given before us, we the Court and the witnesses, who have signed at the bottom of this deed. This happened to pass: The people of the Great Synagogue of the city of Ramle leased the 

 

 half of the ruin belonging to the Synagogue of the Palestinians, which stands, and has its door, in front of the gate of the synagogue.


 They leased it to Ṣedāqā b. Yefet al-Shīrajī, known as Ibn Mūkhāṭṭ al-Naʿya, for twenty


 years, beginning on the first of the 4th year of the shemitta, that is the year 4799 


 of the creation. So the said Ṣedāqā b. Yefet undertook to pay 


 one-half dinar every year as rent for this ruin, to be used for the maintenance of this synagogue 


(8-9) and its needs. Also, the people of the synagogue agreed that after those twenty years they will pay the said Ṣedāqā the cost of the timber, the stones, and the equivalent of the expenditures 

 

 made by. the said Ṣedāqā b. Yefet. If the people of the synagogue are willing to let the said Ṣedāqā live 


 in this ruin after the twenty years have been completed, the said Ṣedāqā will rent this ruin  


from the people of the synagogue for a full price, like anybody who rents compounds or houses, according to the value 


 of its rent every year. They also will compute for the said Ṣedāqā the sum still due to him


 after those years and will pay it to him either by (providing) his lodging or by paying the balance of 


 his disbursements, so that thereafter he may go wherever he likes. On these terms the lessors undertook 


 to lease this ruin and we acquired (the equivalent) from Ṣedāqā b. Yefet 


 with an instrument that it is proper to acquire with. And we wrote, signed, and gave (it) to Ṣedāqā b. 


 Yefet, so that it should be in his hand, for both his right and due, as title and proof. Sound and valid. 


 Abraham ha-Kohen b. R. Isaac, witness. Ṣedāqā ha-Levi b. Abraham, of blessed memory.


 David ha-Kohen b. Yefet, of blessed memory. Ephraim b. Moses ha-Ḥazzan, of blessed memory. 


 Ephraim b. Yaʿqūb. Yaḥyā b. Yeshūʿā, of blessed memory. Mevassēr b. Tūvya, the scribe, witness.


 Solomon b. Fuhayd, of blessed memory. Menaḥēm b. Yefet, of blessed memory.


 