Recto, main text
 
In Your Name, O Merciful.


The letter of your excellency arrived, my lord, the illustrious sheikh. May God prolong


your life and make permanent your well-being and safekeeping, your dignity


and happiness, your ascendancy, highness and loftiness, your support and elevated station!


May He not deny you His superior gift of success! May He crush whoever is envious of you and destroy


whoever hates you and is your enemy! This (will be) with His favor and generosity, God willing. You will be happy


to know—may God make permanent your honored position!—that I arrived from India in


complete safety. Let them praise the Lord for His steadfast love, etc.  I lack nothing but


looking at your upright appearance. May God speedily facilitate our meeting


in the happiest of circumstances, when achieving the most delightful hopes,


God willing! God, the Exalted, has already facilitated my decision to


return to India. May God, the Exalted, make the outcome good!


You mentioned, my lord—may God make your honored position permanent!—that the slave had arrived.


I, your servant, am glad that he reached you in complete safety.


You mentioned also the arrival of the articles that were with Sheikh


Nahray b. ʿAllān. This made me happy. You had requested, my lord, a turban of


lānas silk. I sent you an exquisite (or: delicate) turban of lānas silk,


embroidered. I also sent another one for your father, and I wrote on


every side separately, the name of its owner. You (pl.) should take delivery of this from


Sheikh Abu ʾl-Riḍā son of the boy of Shamʿa. May God decree his safe arrival!


I sent with him also a fine Qaṣṣī foot carpet.


I had hoped this year to travel home  to Egypt,


but I was unable to come because of the state of gloom,  which occurred. May God make


the outcome good! Convey my best  wishes to your mother,


and tell her of my longing for her. God willing, I shall strive


to travel home to you next year, at any rate, God willing.


Your excellency is greeted with best, profuse wishes. Convey for me


to the whole family my best wishes. And all our coreligionists


and whoever asks for us are greeted with the best, profuse wishes.


Sheikh Abū Naṣr  had sent with me for your excellency a bag, in which were


red copper wires. I sold it for seven mithqāls. Sheikh


Abū Naṣr has (for you) two mithqāls, the proceeds of myrrh, which makes a total of nine mithqāls.


I purchased for you (pl.) with them, sixty manns of ṭabāshīr. I have already delivered it to the most illustrious


Sheikh Maḍmūn. He will forward it in the Kārim with whomever he finds suitable,


since I am about to travel, and I have written this letter on the very day


 
Recto, right margin
that I am sailing. This is for your information, my lord. Please honor me with whatever needs or services for your excellency that may arise. Your excellency is greeted with best, profuse wishes. And abundant peace! Salvation is near.
 
 
Verso, address
(To) His excellency, the most illustrious sheikh, my lord Sulaymān Kohen b. Judah. May God guard his life!
(From) His servant Mahrūz b. Jacob—may the spirit of the Lord give him rest!}

 