Recto

I am writing this lines to my lord and brother and the one for whom
I would sacrifice myself in haste because of the messenger,
in response to his kind letter, which arrived in the hands of
Abū Saʿd, son of the elder Abū ʿAlī b. al-Kirnīb.
God knows my happiness at his health and wellbeing.
But these things that have been set in motion against him
and me, and my break — there is nothing to be done. "This, too, is for the best" (b.Taʿanit 21a and parallels).
God knows that I myself am in hell because of all 
these issues. But I won't tell you and worry you.
I'm oppressed, but being painted as an oppressor because
of this cheese — nothing has arrived from him. I've
already dragged people through legal proceedings because of it. A decision
hasn't been reached about it. The person I was negotiating with
over it without involving witnesses has refused me and sworn (Goitein: falsely), and all manner of 
sinister things. The judges aren't deciding the matter,
the rayyis isn't free to sit in session, and if the judges sit
on their own, (the decision) they (make) won't be accepted. As for what's in the dār
al-wakīl, God knows that since I left the port,
 I haven't paid a single dirham of what I owe on it.
The judges haven't come to a decision and they haven't set out 
a settlement. I'm being cut off from every place. I repaid 
Ibn al-Amshāṭī the seventeen dīnārs
and took his signature (on a quittance) and had the Nezer witness it,
and Faḍl b. Binyām and his brother in Alexandria
signed their attestations on his signature. I sent everything with
the elder Abū l-Makārim b. Qassāsa.
Let me know, my lord, whether the elder Abū l-Ḥasan b. 

Recto, right margin

{Ibn} Khulayf
said that he's collected
only eight dīnārs.
God forbid this is the case, 
since the man had already collected from me
a dinar's worth of dirhams earlier,
whereas the eight happened recently,
five in dirhams and three
in gold coins. As for the news about the donkey,
the right thing to do would have been
for it to be sold for two dīnārs
bare, with no tack, since
the tack would have cost twenty
dirhams and I would only have bought it
from them for three
and two qīrāṭs. I already sent 
three dīnārs in
change and the difference due to the lost donkey.
As for ʿImrān,
he told me, "We won't cause you any losses,
since you're already doing
a favor for us. But as to
what my lord reported about
what my lord the elder
Abū Saʿīd Makhlūf 
al-Yatīm said: the Creator knows
that my intention was only
to meet his need. Because

Recto, top margin

up until this moment,
I haven't done business with him,
because I
traveled to
Banhā only 
at the beginning of
Iyyar, and
Abū Saʿd
the silker was
with me.

Verso

God knows that the aforementioned Abū Saʿd isn't able
— even though he's a tax-farmer — {able} to bring
Abū Zikrī al-Kohen's silk back (to Fustat). This
silk(er?) — since he has a partner in the obligation,
the tax-farmer of Cairo, he can't come to
me any time to take silk unless 
he's stealing it. If it weren't for me, he couldn't have done it.
Also, the tax-farm of the (dār) al-ṣināʿa and the tax-collector (mushidd)
don't let him take one raṭl as
a fee, or it's said to him, That's not yours! The injustice
{the injustice} is rampant. So from the moment I
arrived in Qalyūb, I've been by myself, and Abū Saʿd has caught up with me
accompanied by Abū l-Ḥasan al-Asmar ("the swarthy"), known 
as Ibn Buthayna. I brought the silk down when they were with me,
and I brought the scales and they weighed it, minus
a quantity of two raṭls, and added up the total,
which came to 15½ (dīnārs) per 10 (raṭls).

Verso, right margin

So Abū Saʿd said:
"To me this is only worth
14 (dīnārs) per 10 (raṭls),
and there is something in it (that makes it) worth
13 (dīnārs) per 10 (raṭls), because I 
want to raise (the price) by
a dīnār and subtract the commission (?)
and the tax obligation." I came back,
God knows, to this speech
from a number of angles, but he
didn't deviate from his words.
He said: I don't
want it.

Verso, bottom

So then I took it myself out of shame.
Then it turned out, if had he taken it, it would have been detained
witih him (coming back to Fustat), since he's lost his tax-farm 
and all their silk has been detained. He and his brother
are in a bad situation, and if God wills, I
will pay them in Sivan and bring him (you) 
the entirety of it, and it will be over. I collected from the messenger
two wraps (ʿarḍī) and a fūṭa. May my lord have a long
life — Abū Naṣr b. al-Minqār died. 
As for the situation of my legal judgment — I showed up and they rendered a decision
on me according to the opinion of Rabbenu Hayye, and ordered the sale
of the house, granting me a month's delay, but then they retracted it
and didn't stand by this opinion, but rather Rabbi Natan (ha-Kohen bar Shelomo)
and the Rav (Elʿazar b. al-Qaṣabī) and the elder Abū l-Faraj the dayyan and the ḥaver
Abū Sahl followed the opinion of Rabbi Yiṣḥaq (al-Fāsī), and (then) the decision
was pending and (then) stood. The Rav was saying, If only you had sent your brother 
the fatwā of the rav Rabbenu Yosef (Ibn Mīgash) — 
it would have strengthened our (position) a lot. Peace.
