recto

[...] with him [...]
al-Sadīd—may [God] pro[lon]g [his life!—. . .]
the most illustrious nākhuda was kind enough (to assist) in what
you had already begun. Praise and thanks
are only to you. My lord, you
have already concerned yourself with the matter. Please complete it, for
kindness is yours in the past and recently. I request
of you, my lord, that you consider me one of
your devotees and servants. God already
knows and attests my love for my master.
Sheikh Abraham b. Yijū
has made little of a (the) load of five bahārs.
All the time I see him, he repeats to
me, your servant, his talk. I have become exasperated by him.
He says to me all the time: “Come back.” Then he makes himself scarce
and disappears, in a short day a hundred
times. I request that you act in the name of your esprit de corps
with me, in keeping with your customary acts of kindness and noble
character with me and with others, concerning
something that one has taken from another. I have already
spoken with the nākhudā
about this, and he said to me: “I shall look after you.”
I request of your exalted excellency
to take care of this, until you take

recto, right margin

[...] mithqāls in the city (of Aden), whatever there is that remains. I shall complete my business with it, with your assistance. Then I shall come to Aden and proclaim the graces of the Lord—may He be praised!—
[and your grace]. I entreat God blessed be He and you. Stand by me and strengthen your surroundings, my lord and master. May your patronage protect me and your assistance embrace me! I ask of the Holy One

verso

blessed be He to increase all good things in
this world in your hands, make you successful, enable you to attain
your goals and make you, as
the Holy One blessed be He has already made you,
a permanent support. May He protect you from all
danger! Be kind enough, my lord
and master, to be present where your servant
is absent. May God make permanent your prosperity!
Expedite for your servant whatever
will be, in a (any) number of ways. Whatever there is
is from my load. I hope to receive whatever
is recovered soon, so that I can derive benefit
from it. Peace on your pure spirit and your virtuous soul.
May peace overtake peace!}
