

In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate.  


In the first ten days of the month of Ramaḍān, in the year four-hundred and  ninety-five, Durrī  


ibn Askar al-Qarīṭī and his wife Maghribiyya, the freedwoman of Yaḥyā, in the estate known as Ibwān belonging to the province of the town of  


al-Ushmūnayn, were present and negotiations took place between them that are  too long to relate but whose outcome was that the  


 ...... red cow and its female offspring would be shared in a partnership between her and her daughter Taʿīsh,Durrī ibn ʿAskar  


having no share in it, large or small, nor any partnership in respect of them, nor any association; and that the black cow and its male offspring  


belonged to his wife Maghribiyya, the feedwoman of Yaḥyā, as part of her property, she being free to act with regard to them as owners act with regard to  their property and not having  


any partner or associate with respect to them; and that the twenty-five white  sheep, and their followers, are held in partnership  


between Durrī ibn ʿAskar and his wife Maghribiyya, named together with him on the recto of this document, in equal shares.  


Whenever they want a division (of the sheep), they will carry that out  themselves, adhering to the requirement that it be into two equal halves.


They acknowledged this and called witnesses to testify that they were in sound health, that their actions were legal and that they were acting willingly, not  


forced. This took place on the aforementioned date. This was witnessed.  


 
Witness Clauses 


Naṣr ibn Badr al-Salūlī testified to all that  


has been stipulated and detailed herein. This has been written on his behalf,  


by his instruction and in his presence.  


Jarīr ibn Badr al-Salūlī testified to all that  


has been stipulated and detailed herein. This has been written on his behalf, by his  instruction and in his presence.  


Jawwāb ibn Naṣr al-Salūlī testified to all that  


has been stipulated and detailed herein. This has been written on his behalf, by his  instruction and in his presence.


Zaydūn ibn Mahdī al-Salūlī testified to all that has been stipulated and detailed  herein. This has been written on his behalf, by his instruction and in his presence.  


Rikāb ibn Jawhar al-Salūlī testified to all that has been stipulated and detailed  herein. This has been written on his behalf, by his instruction and in his presence. 


Futūḥ ibn Qāsim testified to all that has been stipulated and detailed herein. This  has been written on his behalf, by his instruction and in his presence.  


Sughlūl ibn Mahdī testified to all that has been stipulated and detailed herein. This has been written on his behalf, by his instruction and in his presence.  


 