Recto

In your name, merciful one.
May God the exalted listen to what his servant implores of his excellency our lord,
his honor, greatness and holiness, our master and teacher Mevorakh, sagacious leader, sage of the yeshiva, 
grand counsel, strength of the house of Israel, prince of princes, nagid
of nagids, may his glory be exalted and his honor be magnified, son of his honor, greatness and holiness our master and [teacher]
Saʿadya the physician, pious one of his generation, may the memory of the righteous be a blessing, and may the two honored princes live,
especially his honor, greatness and holiness, our master and teacher the rayyis Abū l-Bayān
Moshe, and may the rayyis Abū l-Barakāt (also) live. The servant has no tongue
to convey supplication and thanks for (even) some of the benefactions that his excellency has bestowed
upon his servant and for the fact that I am sitting among my children (and) have not been scattered: (this is) from God
and among the benefactions he has granted me. Valid (i.e., known) among all the traders
and those who seek tax farms is his standing for his slave and his protection of me and granting bene[factions
to me, except among the group called the Banū Ḥujayla from Tyre. A[mong them]
there is a sinner. They hold the slave in contempt, since they enjoy bribery, may they be cursed.
They are scrutinizing me; everything I could add to their rank, they covet in me.
The Banū Ḥujayla have started mentioning that they are outbidding me in the dīwān,
and saying that they have a judge with them who is a cavalryman and a Qaraite, Ibn al-Bayrūtī, and that 
al-Dhukhayra and Ibn Abī Sāma look after them. So they say. They went to

Recto, right margin

the tax-farm that is in
Minya, of which I am the tax-farmer
rather than them. They outbid me, and didn't
accept a greater (offer from me), even though they (the people in the dīwān? the traders?) said to them: 
This tax-farmer (the petitioner) (received his appointment) from 
Dhū al-Riʾāsatayn for three
years, and h[e has]
one and a half remaining. Let us not accept 
a greater offer until he finishes (the term of his) tax-farm
and oath. Were it not for the fact that I don't
owe the fiscal officials (al-muʿāmilīn) any debts,
I wouldn't have troubled the prince
our lord, may his glory be exalted.

Recto, top margin

The servant awaits his recompense
from God and from his excellency,
and my redemption from the people of this group,
who are ruining me. If they keep 
from me this year and a half without
surplus, then (I will be dependent) on God and his excellency.
And if they succeed in outbidding me, then the slave
will accept it, since I owe debts
to the traders, and they are killing me. I beg
God and his grace to bestow upon me,
as he has bestowed on me before and
forever. Amen, may it be His will.

Verso, address

To his excellency our lord, his greatness and holiness, our master and teacher, prince of princes, nagid of nagids,
may his glory be exalted and his honor magnified
His servant the ... [
