Recto

In your name, merciful one.
May God the exalted listen to what his servant implores his excellency our lord
his honor, greatness and holiness, our master and teacher Mevorakh, sagacious leader, sage of the yeshiva, 
grand counsel, strength of the house of Israel, prince of princes, nagid
of nagids, may his glory be exalted and his honor be magnified, son of his honor, greatness and holiness our master and [teacher]
Saʿadya the physician, pious one of his generation, may the memory of the righteous be a blessing, and may the two honored princes live,
at the head and the beginning, his honor, greatness and holiness our master and teacher the rayyis Abū l-Bayān
Moshe, and may the rayyis Abū l-Barakāt live. The servant has no tongut
to convey supplication and thanks for even some of the benefactions that his excellency has lavished
on his servant. I am sitting among my children, not having ? from God
and from some of his benefactions upon me. An appointment was validated among all the traders 
who have obtained a tax-farm for his servant, and his collecting money and refu[sing] 
me since I wasn't one of the groups called the Banū Ḥujayla from Tyre. A[mong them]
is the evil sinner. They hold the slave in contempt, since they have a taste for bribery, may they be cursed.
They are scrutinizing me and everything I could add to their esteem, they covet in me.
The Banū Ḥujayla have started mentioning that they are outbidding me in the dīwān,
and saying that they have a (Jewish) judge with them who is a cavalryman and ? son of the Bayrūtī, and that 
al-Dhukhayra and Ibn Abī Sāma look after them. So they say. They went to 

Recto, right margin

the tax-farm that is in
Minya, of which I am the tax-farmer
rather than them. They outbid me, and didn't
accept a greater (offer). They said to them: 
This tax-farmer (received his appointment) from 
Dhū al-Riʾāsatayn for three
years, and h[e has]
one and a half remaining. Let us not accept 
a greater offer until he finishes (the term of his) tax-farm
and oath (?). Were it not for the fact that I don't
owe the fiscal officials (muʿāmilīn) any debts,
I wouldn't have troubled the prince
our lord, may his glory be exalted.

Recto, top margin
Verso, address
