
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

there was in the ship an unlimited amount 


of diversified goods. Never has a ship like this sailed to 


 India. But God ordered this, and there is 


no escape from Him [and from] His judgment. He, who has the power to decree, 


decrees. God, the Exalted, may recompense me and you


and everyone! God is my witness that 


my anguish over the losses of o[thers is greater than that] 


over my own. For it is hard [. . .] 


II,23: T-S 20.137 recto
 

And after this he [Bama] went and rented himself a place and said,
“Provide me with sufficient living expenses.” So he took from me
eight dinars for living expenses during four months. Most of the 
time he came to me under the inÁuence of drink, not hearing
a word I said. I don’t know what purpose you had, my lord,
in sending him. Your (load of ) pepper arrived,
that is the one in the ship of the nākhudā Abu ’l-Ḥasan b. Abu 
’l-Katāʾib. The weight: twenty-two bahārs and sixty pounds

This year, at the beginning of seafaring time, the son of al-ʿAmīd,


the ruler of Kīs, sent an expedition against Aden. He had demanded part of Aden, which


was refused, whereupon he sent this expedition. His fleet consisted of two burmas {read: nrmhs},


three shaffāras, and ten jāshujiyyas, altogether manned with


about 700 men. They anchored in the harbor (makallaʾ) of Aden, lying in wait for


(the incoming) ships, but did not enter the town. The people of the town were very much


afraid of them, but God did not give them victory and success.


Many of their men were killed, their ships were pierced (with spears), and they died of thirst


and hunger. The first of the merchants’ fleet to arrive were the two vessels of the nākhudā 


Rāmisht. They (the enemy) attacked them, but God did not give them victory. As soon as the two ships


entered the port (bandar), they were boarded by a large number of regular troops,


whereupon they (the enemy) were driven from the port and began to disperse {alt. tr.: go in circles} on the open sea.


Thus, God did not give them victory. They made off in the most ignominious way, having suffered great losses 


and humiliation {alt. tr.: having suffered many killed and great losses}. The news from Egypt was mediocre. 


(As a result) goods sold poorly, and there was no demand for even a dirhem’s worth of pepper


or (other) merchandise, except a week before sailing.


Had I asked the owners of the pepper for the ‘tithe,’ they would have sold it


for less than 20. So I was patient with them for the ‘tithe’


up to the day of sailing, until people came from all over 


and the price of pepper was fixed at 23 dinars per bahār.

 



 
 
