Recto


In Your name, O Merciful.


You will walk, without breaking stride; when you run, you will not stumble.


And Shaddai be your treasure, and precious silver for you.


For the Lord will be your trust; He will keep your feet from being caught. 


 The letters of your excellency the illustrious Sheikh, my lord, have arrived—may God prolong


your  life and make permanent your honored position, rank, loftiness


excellence, highness and ascendancy. May He never deprive


your dwelling-place and court of any good. May He protect


all He has conferred upon you. May He subdue those that are envious of you


and crush your enemies. I was glad when I looked at your letter, and then I read it


full of happiness. “It was like water on a thirsty land” (Prov. 25:25 and Ps. 143:6).


“I was like one that finds much spoil” (cf. Ps. 119:162). It was reassuring for me to learn from it


about your well-being and your satisfactory state. Then I praised God for


this very much and asked Him to give you more of all the best


in His mercy. I, your servant, have taken note of your remark,


my lord, of how little I had written you, my lord, last


year. I, your servant, wish to inform you that I had (sent) {lit., ‘written’} letters


with Sheikh Abū ʿAbd Allāh b. Abu ’l-Katāʾib,


and a consignment as well, to you, my lord, from me, your servant, in the


Jurbattanī, the ship of the Sultan. You know,


my master, what happened to it. Thus, the letters


and the consignment entrusted to him were lost. In the ship


in which Sheikh Abū Zikrī Ibn al-Shāmī traveled (I had sent) letters to notify you


about the consignment sent with Sheikh Abū ʿAbd Allah b. Abu ’l-


Katāʾib. However, this ship, too, suffered what


you know. For I, your servant, enquired about you,


my lord, and learned {lit., ‘and they told me’} that your house and your children were in


Jurbattan. Therefore, I sent the things with the above mentioned. 


As to the news concerning your brother Mevasser—he is well, but has not arrived.


I shall act in this matter {alt. tr.: concerning him}, as you advised, my lord. Concerning


the forty dinars transmitted by Sheikh


Maḍmūn through Sheikh Abū Naṣr b. Elisha,


I have no information; I do not know whether he (Mevasser) received something


or not. There arrived what you, my lord, kindly sent, namely the three 


qaṣa-bowls, the water skin with lemon, the ginger, and the basket


with pepper and ginger. I received all this and thank


you, my lord, for your kindness and effort in this matter.


May God reward you, my master, and satisfy your needs {alt. tr.: undertake your compensation}, and


may I never {lit., ‘may He never let me’} miss you! As to excusing you, my lord, for not being able to purchase the new


betel nuts—you, my lord,


are excused, for all the travelers 


arrived and told the same story. I, your servant, sent


with Sheikh Abū ʿAlī Ibn al-Ḥalla to


Manj<ar>ūr two bottles of sugar, two bottles of raisins, and a bottle


of almonds, a total of five bottles. The bottle with almonds was  filled


with sugar, for it had a little empty space; therefore, I filled it


with sugar. I, your servant, sent you also with the above


mentioned (Abū ʿAlī) half a pound of vitriol, half a pound of chewing gum,


ten sheets of white paper and a pound of costus.


I could not get hold of arsenic in


the market; otherwise, I would have sent it to you, my lord {alt. tr.: but it will reach you (later), my lord}. Please, my master,


receive for your esteemed self the best greetings from me.


And to my lords, your children—may God let you enjoy their being alive {alt. tr.: give you pleasure with them throughout your life}!—


and to Sheikh Bama the best greetings.


And your servants, my children, send you


and your children the best greetings. And Peace.


Written in the month of Elul of the year 


1458 E.D.


Verso
1. (To) His excellency, the most illustrious Sheikh 
2. Abū Isḥāq Abraham b. 
3. Peraḥya, known as Ibn Yijū.
1. (From) His servant and the property of his hands,
2. Khalaf b. Isaac—
3. may God’s spirit give him peace! 