
In the name of God the Merciful and Compassionate.
The slave asks my honourable master, the sublime elder, the secretary, may God cause his strength to endure,
to kiss the hands of my sublime master, the Master of the Horses, (U)ruwī, the son of my sublime master [Īsū],
(the slave writing the letter being) his (the eparch’s) slave and the slave of his father before him, and informs him (the secretary) that the letter of your honour has reached his slave (the writer)
and he has read it. The only thing preventing the slave (the writer) from sending your honour a letter (earlier)
is that the slave (the writer) no longer had the means to send it safely.
He (the secretary) is the one most deserving of the best letter of the slave (the writer), which would give him (the secretary) the right to enjoy
Eden. The slave (the writer) requests his honour to write a letter
to the slave (the writer) so that it be in his hand and mention in it the lieutenant Peti
and the Master of the Shipmasts (asking them) not to listen to anybody saying
things like “Have we triumphed over his slave in the (trading) places?” It has been hidden from you who
the people saying this are. It is like somebody with malicious intent. I request
my master (to write) a letter in which this is mentioned to ʿUqayl al-ʿAjmānī
in which you inform him of my situation, my slaves, and my cultivators
and you inform the lieutenant Peti and the Master of the Shipmasts about my situation
before my master (the eparch) returns from his journey, God willing. I have decided
to go up to meet him, God willing. The slave will ask
my master, the elder ʿUbayd Allāh, to encourage him (the secretary) to draft a letter for me
and send it to me with the Master of the Shipmasts.

Verso

This is what I need the most from my master (the eparch).
In the days of his father, my master, the Master of the Horses, nobody opposed
me in anything. I am well respected and (request) that he goes to ask my honourable master (the eparch)
to treat me in the same way that his father treated me. Please be aware
that I pray sincerely and with kind gratitude that it (the letter)
will arrive safely. I have sent (this letter) to him with the Master of
the Shipmasts and we shall request him to pay one dīnār as cash commission
to my master the elder ʿUbayd Allāh. Greetings to you.
Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso - address

My honourable master, the secretary, ʿUbayd Allāh
ʿAlī, the secretary of the Master of the Horses.
From his slave
Ibrāhīm ibn ʿAbd al-Raḥmān.
