Recto

… In the Lord they shall be justified etc. (Is. 45: 25). Israel shall rejoice etc. (Ps. 14: 7 and 53: 7). And my soul etc. (Ps. 35: 9).
… For your husband etc. (Is. 54: 5). And seed (Jer. 35: 9).
… His temple and His hall, and He shall bring Ṣemaḥ, may his name increase (Ps. 62: 17), and He shall gather together the dispersed ones of His people and plant them
… hidden to their remnants, rapidly and soon. Amen. Sela.
… hundred seventy five years of the era of the Greeks, in Egypt, in the city of Fusṭāṭ which is situated
… before the elders giving their testimony below in this writ, and said to them: Be my witnesses and perform with me the qinyan
… and not mistaken, not in error and under no compulsion, but according to my will, wish and desire that I married
… in purity and holiness, by mohar, writ, witnesses and betrothal, according to the commandment of Moses, man of God of blessed memory, and according to the custom of
… her legitimate needs and desires to the best of my strength and possibilities, and I shall be with her in truth, justice, love
… who feed, support, dress, clothe, honour and esteem their pure wives
… twenty five coins of silver, mohar of her non-virginity. And I added for her fifteen dinars
… dinars with these twenty five coins of silver, I shall give them to her when I come to her, and I shall owe her
… Nathana'el ben Mevasser ha-Levi, and they testified before the elders signing below in this document, and said: We are witnesses
… Marzūq ben Yefet and that she accepted all the conditions that they established among themselves
… this Faras daughter of Simḥa to Marzūq ben Yefet, by the mohar mentioned above, to be his wife and companion (Mal. 2: 14)
… all that the pure daughters of Israel do in the house of their husbands, to behave towards him in truth
… [Ḥananya] ben Elnathan, the agent, [before] the elders and testified that he took willingly and wishfully
... and Marzūq ben Yefet was cleared from it. These are the belongings that Faras brought with her
… Dabīqī, 2; a wimple, 3; a whitish headband, 2; a Siqlāṭūn gown, 5; five skullcaps, 2;
… Siqlāṭūn and a silk mattress, 7; two pairs of cushions with decorative border, 5; a bed, 1; a silk blanket, 2;
… 5, with its belongings, 15; a serving tray, a mug and a lamp, 5. Total value of these belongings
… Yefet under […] before the elders and testified that all these belongings arrived to
… what belongs to him and […] he will not change anything from them without the knowledge of his wife and without her consent, and he accepted
… and what will be worn out from among them, and that Ḥananya ben Elnathan, the agent, and Marzūq ben Yefet
… from this world without a living child from Marzūq ben Yefet, all [her belongings] will return
… and Marzūq ben Yefet will not owe anything from her delayed mohar, according to the procedure
… according to the sighting of the Moon and the finding of aviv in the Land of Israel, and their customs. We performed the qinyan with Ḥananya, the agent,
… made clear in this ketubba, which is not like asmakhot, nor like mere formularies, but like all genuine documents
… and what happened before us, we wrote, signed, certified and explained to be in possession of Faras, daughter of
… testimony, according to the law of Moses and Israel, may they build and prosper, rejoice, be merry and be happy in the building
[of Jerusalem], God will establish it for ever. Sela.
Lord, please, save us. Lord, please, make us prosper.
… and this is its image
… witness; Abraham ben Joseph ben ᶜAnan ha-Levi, witness; ᶜAlān ben Naḥūm, may his soul be at rest, witness; Elᶜazar ben Samuel ben Sahl ha-ᶜEved, may his soul be at rest.
… ben Efraim, may his soul be at rest. Saᶜa[dya] ben Rāzi’el, witness; Şedaqa ben Menashe, witness; Saul ben Abraham, witness.
