Recto


To the dignity of the honorable, great and holy master and teacher R. Elijah the judge


(may his) R(ock) p(reserve him), from his slave, who is grateful for (past) favors, Joseph b. Jacob the Kohen.


I inform you - may God give you peace - that we left you for


Bilbays; however, he did not manage t o find a livelihood there at all, so we went over to


Minyat Ghamr where we chanced across th[is f]ellow, the bearer of the letter,


R. Abraham al-Mu'rqi'; we agreed that he should go to


Alexandria and bring my wife back, and we further agreed that he should take her packages


and go bring her back. We made the symbolic purchase certified in


court. Your letters had come to the elder


Abu'I-Suru'r the Kohen, and to the elder Abu'l-T'a'hir. If they have


arrived i n Cairo, send me a letter with the bearer of this letter


(informing me) of their arrival. ...... Let me know when they arrive, and whatever (else)


you hear, write me. I had sent you a letter from Bilbays


with Abu H'ayyu'n (in which I said) that you should pay him the rest of the sum you owe for the turban and the


two rugs which are in the possession of Ibn al-S'abba'gh, if you have safely delivered them


to him. If you have not delivered them to him, deliver them to


Rabbi Abraham, the bearer of the letter, because we haven't got anything


for expenses. I await your letter.


Verso


We ask from God and from you - in regard to this Rabbi Abraham -


that you encourage him with agreeable words, perhaps he may report them to us.


Say to him, "This loss .... is not of your doing". May God in heaven


help me to reward you with what is good. (From all the greetings which I sent through you) pick out for yourself the especially good


ones. Inform the elder Abu' Nas'r (that I send him) best regards,


//And peace//


(and inform yourself) that the elder Abu'l-Faraj, the son of your maternal uncle, and his son ask 


about you. Do not neglect (to do something) about his request to write the chief.


Address


May this letter come to the honorable, great and holy Rabbi Elijah the judge


from his slave Joseph b. Jacob the Kohen

