 

 

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Your two servants took note of


what you had described in your distinguished letter about sending a power of attorney against that Jew.


By Great God and the covenant of the living God, your two servants were overwhelmed 


with boundless joy by your having kindly honored 


them with filling your need. We were prepared to perform this act of respect for you 


and apply ourselves to realize your right and collect your due, in the most complete 


and proper fashion possible. The two of us inquired about that Jew with our coreligionists, the Jews who have arrived (from Egypt).


They said that he had returned to Egypt (or Fustat: Misr) from ʿAydhāb. Certainly our bad luck caused 


this [. . .] 


We hope that your excellency will find a substitute, God willing, and God return to you your belongings.}


Your eminent excellency mentioned sending three wraps4 and a scarf. May God reward you well [for]


this and undertake to give you recompense! [...] 


 


Your two servants thanked you for [your k]ind[ness]


and your effort over this. May we never want for you, God willing! Your excellency—


may God make <your honored position> permanent!— mentioned that we had had a credit for the proceeds from all the small items we had sent—


after the expenditures for customs, tolls and the like—of 117 ⁄ 8 Egyptian dinars. There is nothing to say 


concerning this, except that the wraps were not commensurate with what your two servants had suggested (ordered), 


nor were they appropriate8 for them. Your two servants had rather ordered something more delicate (or: exquisite)


and beautiful than that. There are plenty like that brought by the travelers who arrive (from Egypt). We hope that your excellency will kindly find 


a substitute. As to the balance of the account, of which your eminent excellency wrote that 


you had sent them in payment, there is nothing to say. If there is still some (balance) left, kindly send 


for it to your two servants fine yellow and red strings (wires), Egyptian handicraft, fine, 


good work, if you will be so kind. Some time ago your late father—


God’s mercy be on him!—had sent to us what was most exquisite, fine and superb. Be so kind as to do this. May we never want for you!


But as for us, your two servants had sent with the most eminent


Sheikh Abū ʿAlī b. Wahab the Fellow (of the Yeshiva) something for your father, namely a piece 


of delicate Indian red silk (lānas) and a head cover (ardī ) of delicate Indian red silk and, I think, one or two pairs of ʿAththarī


shoes made of unscraped skins. The details are in our letter there; please look for it.


Margin
 


[. . .] If he delivered it, God is praised! That was the intention. If he did not deliver it, since at the time of his arrival your father had already died, and he (Abū ʿAlī) is still there, ask him for it . . .


Your servant my father sends profuse greetings for your well-being and best personal regards. Do not ask how upset he was by the grief, sorrow, regret and distress over the death of your father—may God sanctify his soul! However, there is no avoiding what God, the Exalted, has decreed. Do not ask how he (my father) is suffering from 


 
 
Verso, upside down
 


the strain of illnesses and constant pain. We pray that God in His mercy grant him health, God willing.


The wife of the late shipowner (nākhudā) Mahrūz and his children are all well. They all send your eminence profuse


excellent greetings for your well-being. And they greet the entire family, young and old, with the most excellent


wishes for their well-being. His (Mahrūz’s) young daughter passed away two years ago. May your eminence have 


good health and long life! Your two servants have informed you of this . . .


 