Verso

In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. The slaves report their case to the noble presence, may God increase his nobility, as follows: When 
their leader and their scholars had suffered harm for two years the pure presence, may God make his rule eternal, charitably issued
a mighty decree, on account of which the harm done to them ceased, until a man
called Nātān ibn Ibrāhīm arrived from the West, claiming the position of thehead of our Academy, who had been head of this Academy for sixteen years.
He resisted him and his scholars and did not recognize him. He had been previously recognized and was in office for sixteen years. Then he went and the local police were fetched and they opened the doors until ...i He came a monthago
to Egypt and asked for help from one of (our opponents) from among theKaraite (sect) and won over family relations of his' who could help him
acquire the money to shower honours on the. ’amīr. This was because the ’amīr Munjiz al-Dawla ordered their synagogue to be closed months ago,
(the place) where they used to worship, read the Torah and pray for the commander of the faithful, the peace of God be upon him. When they took theircase to the noble presence
he assigned their affair to the slave of our master, Dii'iid ibn Isl;liiq,
but it turned out that he was preoccupied with his illness and his travels,4 andcaused the slaves to fear one another. The situation of the slaves has become desperate
 and serious. The slaves request the charity to be done to them of issuing an exalted command to one of the Muslim servants
of the government to open their synagogue and permit them to pursue their livesas is their custom and to restrain the hand of those who treat them overbearingly.
To our master, the blessings of God be upon him, belongs the exalted resolution.

 
Right Margin (written as an alternative to line 2) 
1. The closure of their synagogue and the harmful disruption of their customs with which they have been inflicted.
Left margin


In one place they ceased (worshiping) in synagogues and the slaves did not oppose what they did.


After that they sent to the noble presence, the commander of the faithful,concerning their synagogue and (the fact that) they were preventing them from following their customary


ways, while having no right to do so.

The ’amīr Munjiz al-Dawla commanded ...

 