CUL Add.3418: Verso
Re: Abū Yaʿqub, the Doctor, vs. M. Joseph of Tripoli.


This happened on Monday, Kislev 2,


1409 of the era with which we are accustomed (E.D.),


in Fustat of Egypt, which is situated on the Nile River.


Mr. Jekuthiel, son of Mr. Moses, the Doctor—


may he rest in Eden!—sued Mr. Joseph, known as The Son of the Lebdis {alt. tr.: Ibn al-Lebdiyya}, for sixty-two pieces


of clothing, as follows: eight fūṭas of brownish pink {lit., ‘partridge [eye]’} color, (linen) with silk; a red silk fūṭa,


and another, green one, both manufactured in Miṣr (Old Cairo), made by Burayk; a Dabīqī (linen) mulāʾa wrap


with silk borders and gold threads, a Sūsī, Rūsī fūṭa; and a chest


with textiles made in Miṣr (Fustat), numbering forty pieces of


white, ‘raw’ {alt. tr.: ‘not fulled’} kerchiefs {alt. tr.: iḥrāms}; five dotted grayish-blue {lit., ‘chick-pea patterned, lead-colored’} fūṭas and a complete, separately packed


goat’s hair fūṭa; two matching brocade women’s half-mantles


of high quality with badges {alt. tr.: markings}; a piece of muthallath (‘triple-thread’ fabric); a ‘fulled’ half-thawb (robe); a loincloth for fastening the textiles.


Silver vessels: a ‘burned,’ inlaid sprinkler, weighing 70 dirhems;


a gilded inlaid flask, weighing 21 ¼; a censer with a handle {lit., ‘a handle of a censer’}, niello-


ornated,15 ‘burned,’ inlaid, weighing 82 dirhems; a water jug with its lid,


niello-ornated and gilded, weighing 78 ½, a wash basin, niello-ornated


and gilded, 52 ¼, a niello-ornated gilded bowl, weighing


55 dirhems. Copper: hammered yellow copper (brass), and also cast copper,


both in a bundle {alt. tr.: bag} weighing 110 Egyptian pounds. Corals:


two sales-units less one tenth. Scammony: the blue one, (weighing) 20 dirhems.


Storax: the dry, red one, a load weighing 380 manns. Lichen


400 manns, exactly; Dodder of thyme from Crete: 10 manns.


 
CUL Add.3418: Recto


A barrel of fluid storax, weighing 50 manns exactly. He received it from ʿArūs, but it is mine. A purse


with 20 fresh dinars of excellent mint. (He continued): “I paid also the expenses


for the customs in {alt. tr.: I paid also the toll of the customs of} Fustat and the boat’s freight for everything to {add: the port of} Qūṣ.


I sent everything with him to sell and buy for me whatever God would grant {lit., ‘facilitate’}.


I told him: “If God grants you {lit., ‘facilitates your’} safe arrival in Aden, send


for me one half of this shipment by the agency of Ḥasan b. Bundār to Manībār {or: Munaybār},


the pepper country, to buy for me pepper, and the other half should be


with you until you come to Nahrwāra, where you will buy lac for me with it, and bring everything back


with you.” The aforementioned Mr. Joseph was asked about this and replied: “I received from him


a bundle of textiles and arrived with it at Dahlak. In Dahlak


I noticed that textiles sold well there; so I sold the best pieces. The proceeds of this


were 60 good first-class mithqāls, ⟦and there remained with me⟧ together with what had remained


of it and was sold in Aden. As for the silver vessels, I received them from him


and delivered them to Ḥasan b. Bundār, the agent, as he had ordered me ⟦for buying⟧.


The lichen ⟦and the copper⟧ was also handed over by me to Ḥasan b. Bundār, who sold it


and added its proceeds to the 60 dinars, for which I had sold the textiles and which I had delivered


to him. He owes also the proceeds of the storax, of which I had sold in Dahlak a quantity worth


40 dinars in local currency equivalent to ten good mithqāls.


These I handed over to Ḥasan b. Bundār, together with the dodder of thyme, the scammony


and the cover of the textiles. I took the remainder of the dry storax and the corals


to Nahrwāra. As far as the barrel of fluid storax is concerned,


I received it from ʿArūs, but settled the account for its price with Mr. Jekuthiel


 
CUL Add.3421: Recto


prior to my departure, and he has no claim to it.” We asked Joseph about the proceeds from the remainder


of the dry storax and the corals, which, as he said, had gone


with him to Nahrwāra. He answered:


The storax, after the deduction of costs for transport {alt. tr.: after the toll} and the dues, brought


120 (local) dirhems. As to the corals, I bartered them


for beads. A part of these were lost at sea. The remainder


is in a bag of sharāb (fine linen), which is here. The proceeds from the storax were added


by me to the shipment entrusted to me, and I bought for it the {alt. tr.: whatever} goods he wished to have,


which I delivered to him in accordance with the accounts made with him. Then he was asked


with regard to the advance given to him by Ḥasan b. Bundār on account of the pepper. He replied:


The aforementioned Ḥasan lent me, on account of 50 bahārs pepper,


five dinars for each bahār, of which there were for ⟦Sheikh⟧ Mr. Jekuthiel


15 bahārs, of which ⟦three were bahārs of {alt. tr.: for} iron {alt. tr.: silk}⟧ one fourth were for iron {alt. tr.: silk}. Then Joseph was asked


how much the storax sold in Dahlak weighed. He replied: 


“I sold them two manns for one dinar, the total proceeds amounting to 80 manns,


worth 40 dinars (of the currency) mentioned above. When I arrived


here, he argued with me concerning the goods entrusted to me and there was much wrangling


between us. As a sign of good will I delivered to him in exchange for that merchandise a load


of lac worth 100 dinars and lent {lit., ‘advanced’} him another 100 dinars on account of the pepper to be sent {lit., ‘his assets held’} 


by Ibn Bundār.” Asked about this, Mr. Jekuthiel


replied: “As to his statement about the 200 dinars, I did indeed receive


 
CUL Add.3421: Verso


from him these 200 dinars in the way


he described, but they are due me.” On this Mr. Joseph remarked:


“As to those 100 dinars, which I advanced him on account of his assets


in Aden; if the shipment arrives safely and will be worth more than 100, the balance belongs to him,


and if it is less, he is permitted, as from now, to keep the remainder (of the 100 dinars advanced).” In addition, Mr. Joseph


said during the session: “I gave him these 200 dinars expressly


as a final settlement of all (our accounts).”


The proceedings have been written down and signed to serve as a confirmation of rights and a proof.


Hillel b. R. Eli may his memory be blessed!


Abraham b. R. Shemaʿya, Fellow (of the Yeshiva)—may his soul dwell in bliss and his children inherit the land!—descendant of Shemaʿya, the Head of the Yeshiva—may he rest in Eden!


Solomon ha-Kohen, son of R. Joseph, ‘Father’ (of the Yeshiva), the memory of the righteous is blessed!
 