Recto

.....[       ]...[                                                               ]
This house, which has been delineated and described, has four boundaries that  delimit and surround it. Its southern boundary extends [to                                                              ]
between them, running from the east to the west, the use of which is a common right for each of these two transactors ... [         ] and not [             ].  
Neither of them has an objection against the other regarding this. Its southern  boundary extends to the house of Muḥammad al-Barqī. Its eastern boundary, at the southern end [                                 ]  
'Abd al-'Azīz. The northern end extends to the wall that is in the ṣadr of the  aforementioned residence. It is the wall that divides between this house and the  house [of                                          ].  
Its western boundary extends to the aforementioned lane and with this [its door]  communicates. Hārūn ibn Khulayf ibn Hārūn, the Jewish druggist, bought [from  Khulayf] ibn 'Ubayd [ibn 'Ali ibn Khulayf], the dealer in combs,  
all this house, which is described and defined in this document, with all its rights, its boundaries, its land, its building, its lower floor and upper floor, this being an  upper floor belonging to it (i.e. the main house),  
its well, its garden and uncultivated area, its residences, its narrow vault, which is  below the aforementioned residence, its amenities and water conduits, (these) are  among its rights, and all things, few or many,  
that belong to it or form part of it by way of its rights with legal force, its washroom and kitchen, which are in its corridor, and every right belonging to it within and without,  
except the upper section of the corridor, the upper section of the hay-storeroom, the upper section of the vault that is in the western side of the residence on the north of its courtyard, for all this upper section is excluded from the aforementioned sale. Everything that is entailed by this aforementioned sale  
was (sold) for sixty dinars, gold, in minted coin [            ] of good alloy, full weight, clear of one dinar commission,  
a sale without a condition or a promise. This buyer paid to his seller in the venue  of this sale [                                                           ]  
and he released him from weighing them out and counting them out and from an  oath upon it, with a quittance of receiving and fulfilling. The remainder of the  aforementioned price, that is thirty dinars, is due [                               in the year]  
four-hundred and eighty-two. On these terms the sale was contracted between them and the seller handed over to this buyer everything that the aforementioned  sale entails [and he received it]  
from him and acquired it and it passed into his possession and his holding as his  property, by right of this aforementioned purchase. This was after these two  transactors had acknowledged that they had seen all  
the house that has been sold, had examined it, within and without, and had become acquainted with its extremities, its walls, those that are connected to it, those that are separated from it and those that are shared,  
and the roofs of their houses, which are settled with huts, and the palm-beams.  They recognized that (the occupant of) the house of Yaḥyā, the Christian, had the  right to move the western wall of the house, which is in the aforementioned  apartment  
with three walls, up to the two horse tethers that are west of the window, which  is one of the rights of his house. Whenever he wishes to do so he may move it  beyond the window and the courtyard that is in front of it.  
(They also recognized) that this buyer had rough troughs in the southern wall of  the upper floor of the well-house and enjoyed the right to use it as he wished.  They recognized all that with a valid recognition and that was clear to them  when contracting  
this sale between them and beforehand They transacted the sale on these terms  and separated physically after making the contract between them to their mutual  satisfaction and with the intention of carrying it out. Any claim  
made against the buyer's title to this or to any part of it or to its rights is the  responsibility of the seller, according to the obligation that is imposed upon him by this aforementioned sale and the law of Islam and its contract. The  acknowledgement by  
the seller Khulayf ibn 'Ubayd ibn 'Ali ibn Khulayf, the Alexandrian, and by the buyer Hārūn ibn Khulayf ibn Hārūn, the Jewish druggist, of all that is in this  document was witnessed after it had been read to them  
and they had acknowledged that they had understood it, acting willingly in sound  health, legally capable of conducting their affairs and both being cognizant of it.  This took place when twenty-eight nights of Shaʿbān had passed in the year four-hundred and eighty-one. It contains writing  
on an erasure, namely: Hārūn. This was witnessed on its date. The two parties to the sale took nbte of the faults of the house that was sold, the cracks in its walls, the old age of its structure, the breaks in its timber  
and the damaged state of its roofs. The sale took place between them on all these  terms. There did not remain for the buyer any right of return on account of a  fault in this aforementioned house in any way whatsoever. This was witnessed. 
