Recto

In the name of the Everlasting God. In the Lord they are justified (Is. 45: 25). Israel, trust (Ps. 115: 9). And the Lord God said (Gen. 2: 18). That is why man leaves (Gen. 2: 24).
Two are better (Koh. 4: 9). Take wives (Jer. 29: 6). House and wealth are the heritage (Prov. 19: 14). He who found a wife (Prov. 18: 22). It is the Lord who directs steps (Prov. 20: 24).
You will not be told (Is. 62: 4). For your husband (Is. 54: 5). Because like an abandoned woman (Is. 54: 6). On the impulse of a moment (Is. 54: 7). Because God (Ps. 69: 36).
The Supreme God shall look from His elevated heaven, and in the beginning He shall zealously defend the holiness of His name. [He shall rebuild His temple] and His steps. He shall establish His sanctuary and His hall, and send Eliya according to His words. He shall reveal the Messiah in His world, and gather together
the dispersed ones of His people, to plant them in their soil and make them inherit their inheritance. He shall hasten the good news for the future hidden from their remnants. In the lifetime of his Glory, Highness, Holiness our Lord and Master, our prince and Honour, Crown of our head and Diadem of Splendour of all Lords the great nesīim,
chiefs of exiled communities, his Glory, Highness, Holiness, our Lord and Master, our Prince and Honour, Crown of our head, majestic and glorious Lord, the nāsī […] heaven […] world, He shall exalt his Glory and make rise his horn, his Glory, Highness, Holiness, our Lord and Master, our Prince and Honour, Crown of our head and Diadem of Splendour, the majestic and glorious Lord,
the great nāsī Amaryahu Jehuda, the nāsī of those who bring testimony, descendent of the [great] nesīim, flag of the sons of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, our Lord and Master, our Prince and Honour, Crown of our head and Diadem of Splendour, the majestic and glorious Lord, the great nāsī David, Crown of the cherished people and chief
of all the exiled ones, may glory be his resting place, and his Glory, Highness, Holiness, our Lord and Master, our Prince and Honour, Crown of our head, Excellence […] Lords the great nesīim, the rising star and the fruit of the blossoming Tree of Life, Ḥasdai Emmanuel, may God of Israel keep him, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, our Lord and Master, our Prince and Honour, Crown of our head, majestic and glorious Lord, the great nāsī
Sar Shalom, chief of the cherished people and nāsī of all the exiled ones, may the Garden of Eden be his resting place night and day. The entire community: Amen. On Thursday, which is the thirteenth of the month Tishri, year one thousand five
hundred and twelve years of the era of the Greeks, in the city of Cairo which is near Fusṭāṭ which is situated on the river Nile. On this day his Glory, Highness, Holiness, dear young man Elcazar son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Excellency Shemen (Siman ?) Ṭov
son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our majestic and glorious Lord Shemarya son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our majestic and glorious Lord Shemen (Siman ?) Ṭov son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our majestic and glorious Lord Shemarya, may Eden be their resting place,
came before us and before the elders and those giving their testimony below in this document, and said to them: Be my witnesses and perform now with me the qinyan, write and sign that, with full rights, I am declaring before you a real, valid and
lasting declaration. And I am not coerced, not mistaken, not in error, not drunk and under no compulsion, but according to my will and wish and with full resolve, I have married, performed the qinyan and betrothed this woman Rivqa, daughter of the dear elder Joseph,
who was from Byzantium, by mohar, writ, sexual intercourse, witnesses and betrothal, according to the commandment of Moses, man of God, may the peace of God be upon him, and according to the custom of Israel, the pure and holy ones. And I shall dress, clothe, support, respect
and provide for her. I shall fulfil all her legitimate needs and desires to the best of my strength and possibilities, and I shall be with her in truth, justice, love, compassion, honesty and faithfulness. I shall not afflict her or oppress her.
I shall not diminish her food, clothes and sexual intercourse, like the children of Israel who feed, support, dress and clothe their pure wives, and fulfil all they owe them in faithfulness and honesty. And the mohar that I stipulated
and allocated for her, 25 coins of silver, mohar of her non-virginity, I shall give them to her on this day, at the time of her marriage. And I added for her 10 good dinars, a true, strong and binding debt. And this bride Rivqa accepted
the words of our beloved and dear Elcazar, the groom, and wished to be married to him, to be his wife and companion in purity, holiness and awe, to obey, esteem, respect and help him, and to do in his house
all that the pure daughters of Israel do in the house of their husbands, and to behave towards him in truth, justice, love, compassion, honesty and faith, to be under his dominion, and to have her desire directed towards him. And she willingly appointed as her agent
his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence, cAmram ha-Levi, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence, Joseph ha-Levi, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence, Isaac ha-Levi, may Eden be his resting place, to take care of the affairs of her marriage, by testimony of two faithful men […] son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence, Elcazar, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the [elder]
our Lord and Eminence, Ḥalfōn, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence, Elcazar, and his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence, our majestic and glorious Lord Isaac son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the elder, our Lord and Eminence Yefet, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, our majestic and glorious Lord […] son to Isaac who was a pious man from among the Rabbanites.
The agent came and willingly testified that he acted as agent to Rivqa, and gave her into marriage to our beloved and esteemed Elcazar, the groom, by the mohar written [above] and on these conditions. And if, God forbid, this bride leaves
this world without a living child from her husband, all that will belong to her will return to her heir from her father's [family], and her husband will not owe anything from her delayed mohar. Both groom and bride wished and stipulated
to be together willingly, with desire and rectitude, and that they will act according to the custom of the Karaites who observe the holy festivals according to the sighting of the Moon and the finding of the aviv in the Holy Land,
and that they will not appeal to the Gentile courts to change the laws of the Torah. And we performed the qinyan with the agent and with the groom concerning what is written and made clear above, and what happened before us, we wrote, certified and gave
to this bride Rivqa, to be in her possession as proof, right and testimony, like all excellent and true documents with binding power, according to the law of Moses and Israel, may they build and prosper, rejoice and be merry.
O Lord, save, O Lord make prosper. And the elders of the Jews build and prosper (Ezra 6: 14). A full line has been erased, and it is valid.
Isaac bar cAzaryahu, witness;                                                           Nathana'el ha-Kohen ben Meshullam, witness;
Eliyahu ben Ḥalfōn, witness.
