recto

The Lord will ward off from you all sickness, etc.
The servant of his excellency, your honor, great and holy master and lord Saadya the respected elder—may God protect you, grant you success, straighten
your paths, give life to all your children and grant you the merit to enjoy their Torah and their marriage!—kisses your hands. I have learned
that there had been sickness in your home, and God granted recovery. Let them praise the Lord for His steadfast love. I, your servant, heard of your kindness
to R. Samuel. May God receive from him the best of prayers [for you] and make this a light
in front of you in this world and the next world! I have already sent for him the forty dirhems. Please collect your debt from them, and let him use for expenses
the balance. God knows, I had to take them out of my mouth. I already sent him letters
and informed him that the congregation would like him to be a schoolteacher. They promised 20 dirhems a week plus gratuities at
all times. But I did not receive an answer from him. I even sent one letter with Sheikh
Abū ʿAlī the prominent merchant, the Alexandrian. He met with him and told him: Send me the answer. He stayed there
afterwards for some time, but he did not give him anything. As to other matters, when I disembarked, I arrived on Friday 
[...] with Sheikh Abu ʾl-Baqā b. Ḥubaysh the Levite and Sālim
[...] and I received 24 dirhems (?)

recto, right margin
I owe Ibn [...]. I don’t know what obliged him to give me the supervisio and why he reversed the situation. I had (or: have) already perished from the cheese and was (or: have become) perplexed as to what I should do. Were it not for the ‘little one’ //being an orphan//, who already has matured and has no one in the world except God,
 
recto, top margin

I would go to Sicily or to Eretz Israel. I would appreciate your kindly meeting with my lord al-Mēvīn. Please inform him
what happened to me and (ask) how he accepts everything said about me. Let him (or: you should) ask him, what the reason is for this. And if you should see my brother, he should inform me,
or someone who will teach will come to the city, because they are not to be satisfied. May your well-being and the well-being of your children increase! And to my lord Sheikh Abu ʾl-[. . .] and his brothers peace. And peace. 

verso, address
Addressee:

(To) His excellency, your honor, great and holy lord and master Saadya the respected elder—may God protect him!—son of his honor, our great and holy master
and lord Abraham, the respected elder, the pious during his lifetime—may the spirit of God grant him rest!

Sender:

(From) His servant Peraḥyā
b. Joseph—may he be remembered for life in the world to come!}

 