Recto

Proceedings (of what) took place before us—we, the undersigned witnesses—thus:
Mr. Kathīr b. Abraham (who) r(ests in) E(den) came before us, and he had with him a  document from  
our lord Samuel the Nagid, the great Nagid of the people of the Lord of Hosts, prince
of princes,  Nagid of the Nagids, right (hand) of royalty, crown of the Nesi’ut, may his
service be eternal, established forever like the moon. It (the document) demanded the  appearance of the widow of Binyām
b. Ibrahīm (who had come) summoning him to the Glory of the Negidut in the matter
of the orphans of the aforementioned Binyām. Indeed, they only have what he provided  for their needs,
namely, the shops which their father bequeathed them in the town of Malīj, near
Fusṭāṭ Egypt. That which he assessed for their subsistence has not been collected from  their rent.  
Thus the two judges fixed for them a single dinar each month  
for their provisions and clothing . They (the judges) released them from the  declaration
which their father swore, which was under the care of the two courtiers (our) tea(cher)  and m(aster)
Shemariah ha-Kohen, the fullness of beauty, and his partner (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Samuel b.
14. (his) h(onor), g(reatness, and) h(oliness, our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Judah, known as  (I)bn Asad, (who) r(ests in) E(den), (an amount) worth twenty  
dinars which will be in the hand of Kathīr, their paternal uncle, who will trade with it  and will add its profit  
to that which will be collected from the rent of the shops, and he will give them a single dinar 
each month. He came and took ten raṭls of silk in our presence
equivalent to the twenty dinars, from the two aforementioned courtiers,
(our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Shemariah ha-Levi and (our) tea(cher) and m(aster)  Samuel. (Our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Kathīr b.  
Abraham said, “Be witnesses for me, performing a qinyan from me, effective  immediately; write and sign
for me with all the appropriate legal formulae and expressions of certainty
and with all the language of claims, that I have received and taken
these twenty dinars, and it has come into my possession and custody.
I have taken upon myself (responsibility for) any danger to it; and I will send to the sons
of my brother Binyām, (who) r(ests in) E(den), the orphans, a dinar each month,  without  
refusal or resistance, nor demanding proof, nor  
defect by means of a defect reducing the payment of this amount.” We performed a  qinyan with  
Mr. Kathīr b. Abraham (who) r(ests in) E(den), a complete and weighty qinyan, with an  implement suitable for doing so  
concerning all that written and detailed above. That which was before us,
we wrote and signed; and that took place on Wednesday  
the twenty-first day of the month of  
Ṭevet which was in the year 146261, in the town of Minyat Ashna,62 which is near  
Fusṭāṭ Egypt, which is situated on the Nile River, the jurisdiction  
of our lord Samuel the great Nagid, Nagid of the people of the Lord of Hosts,
may his service be eternal, established forever like the moon. Proper and clear and  enduring.  
Solomon b. Zer‘a (who) r(ests in) E(den) Peraḥya ha-Kohen b. Aaron (who) r(ests in)  E(den)  
Jachin ha-Kohen b. Saadiah (who) r(ests in) E(den)

 