Recto, right side 

In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. Praise be to God and peace be upon his servants, whom he has chosen.  
This is what Ṣemaḥ, bearing the patronymic Abū al-Faraj, ibn Ṣadaqa ibn Ṣemaḥ, the Jewish money-changer, bought from his uncle,  
Dā'ūd ibn Ṣemaḥ, the Jewish indigo-dealer. He bought from him with one clapping of the hands the entire eighth completely, this being  
three shares out of a total of six shares, which Dā'ūd, this seller, stated belonged  to him and was in his ownership and possession,  
out of the twenty-four (shares) of the entire standing structure in the house that is in Fusṭāṭ - Miṣr It has separate dwellings on (its) floors  
in wooden apartments surrounding its courtyard. This [      ] From it one enters  
six storerooms. This courtyard has a washroom and a storeroom, which ...... a  staircase to a kneading-trough,  
one of the rights of this house. In this courtyard there is a marble pillar erected  with its two stays at the bottom,  
in the middle of this courtyard. This house is part of the fortress known as the  Fortress of the Greeks,  
also known as the Fortress of the Candles. It has four boundaries. Its southern boundary extends to the well-known house  
of the charitable foundation of the former church of (St.) Michael, now known as  the church of the Greeks, in the Fortress of the Candles,  
contiguous to the oven known as the oven of al-Jalāl. Its northern boundary extends to the house of Maymūn ibn Dā'ūd,  
the Jewish dhimmī. This house of Maymūn has a wall that forms a covering over  the house that is defined herein.  
Its eastern boundary extends to the street know as the street of (St.) Michael and its door communcates with it. Its western boundary  
extends to the house known (by the name) of others. These three shares, which 
this sale entailed, are held in common in the entire house that has been defined  herein, they are not separate from it. (He purchased this) with the boundaries of  what  
was entailed by this sale, its structure, its lower and upper floors, its brick, its  timber, its roof, its doors, its courtyard,  
its conduits, its passages, each of its rights, within and without, except its land, for  it is leased and  
neither it, nor any part of it, was included in what was entailed by this [sale, mentioned in this] document,  

Recto, left side 

for ten dinars, standard weight, gold, in minted coin of good alloy, including  transfer tax and commission, a valid sale without any condition or promise. 
This buyer paid to his uncle Dā'ūd ibn Ṣemaḥ, the indigo-dealer, the entire price  mentioned in this document and this seller received it from him  
and it passed into his possession completely and fully and he released him with a  valid quittance, a quittance of receipt in full, it being
ten dinars, full weight, of good alloy, including transfer tax and commission. This seller handed over to his  nephew,  
this Ṣemaḥ, the buyer, everything that was entailed by this sale, mentioned in this  document,  
and this buyer took it from him and it passed into his possession, as such  property held in. common is customarily received,  
by this sale mentioned in this document. This was after they had acknowledged  that they had both seen  
all this house, which is defined in this document, its interior and exterior, and all  that is in it or  
is part of it, including structure, lower and upper floors, amenities, rights and (all parts), be they few or many, and (after) they had taken note of the sale price 
in this document and of the fact that all the rent for the land of this house  mentioned  
and defined in this document is half a dinar a month. This portion, 
which has been sold, according to its share must pay an eighth of that, which is a  half of an eighth of a dinar every month, no more than that  
for any reason whatsoever. (This was also) after they had taken note of the other  rights of this house and had placed their hands on whatever parts of it 
they could. They undertook the transaction on these terms and separated bodily  after this sale in mutual satisfaction  
with that and with the intention of carrying it out. Should any claim be made  against Ṣemaḥ ibn Ṣadaqa ibn Ṣemaḥ, the Jewish money-changer,
this buyer, regarding what was entailed by this sale, mentioned in this document, or any part  of it or of its rights,  
by any person, it is the duty of his uncle Dā'ūd ibn Ṣemaḥ, the Jewish indigo-dealer, this  
seller, to hand over whatever right is incumbent on him or he is bound by, on  account of this aforementioned sale. (He is responsible) until he hands

Verso, top right

that over to his nephew, this buyer, according to the obligation that this sale,  which is mentioned in this document, places upon him.  
The acknowledgement by the seller and the buyer of all that is in it was  witnessed after it was read to them, while they were in sound health and legally  capable of conducting their affairs.  
That was in the second decade of Shaʿbān in the year four-hundred and forty-four.  It contains .....  
transfer tax and commission.

Verso, right center

 ............. Dā'ūd
 ibn Ṣemaḥ  today
 .............

 
 