Recto

A case that took place before us—we the court appointed by the Great Beit Din of the court of our prince and the leader
of our generation, his honor, greatness and holiness, our master and teacher, our lord Shelomo, the sublime, great prince in Israel and Judah,
the valid document (recording it), may it contribute to his exaltation and raise it aloft in holiness, may his crown shine. Thus it was, in the month of Adar, in the year
1450 Sel. in Fustat, Egypt, situated [on the Nile] River: Our master and teacher Aharon 
ha-Kohen al-Iskandarānī al-Ḥarīrī (the silker), son of our master Moshe the elder, may his resting place be Eden, and Abū l-Khayr Mevorakh son of Moshe, may his resting place be Eden, […]
the tax-farmer of Atfīḥ, appeared before us with a deed in his hand (written) in (the court of) the gentiles the amount of which was 6 dīnārs. He mentioned that he was still owed
the entire sum. There ensued between them matters that it would take a long time to explain. After all that, he agreed from all the [        ]
money with the aforementioned, and the two of them agreed on three dīnārs. Aharon ha-Kohen took them [from Abū l-Khayr]
on the basis of this deed, and (released him) from all claims and requests from the beginning of time until now, and he paid Aharon ha-Kohen [the] thr[ee]
dīnārs, with which he was pleased, and they agreed upon this compromise. We the undersigned executed w[ith our master and teacher Aharon ha-Kohen]
al-Iskandarānī the silker son of our master Moshe the elder, may his resting place be Eden, to Abū l-Khayr Mevorakh a complete and stringent qinyan,
with an implement fitting for the performance of a qinyan, from that moment, with his consent and with no coercion whatsoever. He has released him from all claims 
and demands, from the beginning of time until now. Nothing remains between the two of them whatsoever as a joint enterprise (muʿāmala), and he has no claim against him
whatsoever. He has deprived him of all oaths, simple and grave, even by way of rider oaths, and even ḥerem
setam. He received the indemnification (darak) from him regarding this, as (this document) is unlike promises or formularies, but rather (bears) the weight and force 
of all legal documents of those attentive in the court, so that the force of this document will be exemption. This aforementioned exemption is from the aforementioned deed 
and from any other deed that should appear to this Abū l-Khayr Mevorakh
among the gentile (courts) or a document in Hebrew script, and from any ḍamān of silk or other things, and from any accounting of which he is aware
now or unaware now, whatever it might be or amount to. We performed a qinyan concerning this with Aharon
ha-Kohen, using the most certain stipulations of qinyan, and with the nullification of any determination and pretext, and then we wrote this […]
aforementioned so that it would be his right and proof after this day. Everything is proper and enduring. Natan son of Shemuʾel he-ḥaver, may the memory of the righteous be a blessing […].
When the elder Abū l-Ḥasan, our master and teacher, son of Yaʿaqov the elder, may his resting place be Eden, who is known as Ibn al-ʿIrāqī, stood surety to [Aharon son of Moshe]
for the aforementioned three dinars from the aforementioned Mevorakh b. Moshe also ...
Aharon ha-Kohen the three dīnārs, we the undersigned witnesses executed a quittance from Aharon ha-Kohen
to the elder Abū l-Ḥasan b. al-ʿIrāqī, (releasing him) from the (amount) for which he had stood surety, so that there remained no claims on him on this, and this (was effected) by means of a
valid and stringent qinyan, with an instrument suitable for effecting a qinyan, from now on, canceling all agreements and stipulations. Written to serve as a right and a proof.
