Recto


may God protect them for you. It has been some days now that Shabbat 


and the girl (al-ṣabīya) quarreled, and he was on the verge of divorce. I did not cease to coax him 


and his brothers gently, may God endow them with life. They spared no effort (in this matter). You must, may God protect you, 


write to them and thank them for what they have done. I settled the matter 


as is desired. They are in complete blessing; calm your heart in this matter. 


For I am here for you more than any brother and friend. For your favor is upon us 


and upon anyone who comes to Miṣr, may God make you stay this way forever. 


The bearer of this letter is a cantor from the people of al-Andalus, poor and exiled 


from his land. He has children with him. We have provided (aṣlaḥnā) something small for him and he intends 


to go up to Miṣr. He is a modest and bashful (munqaṭiʿ al- lisān) person. He asked me 


to write on his behalf to a man with fear of heaven and industry. I could not think 


of anyone as fitting as my lord the elder, may God protect you. I ask you to act with him 


as is char- acteristic of you, as your beautiful custom has been with any passerby. 


For he is deserving. Whatever you do // will be good // in your most excellent benefits. Speak 


to my lord, the excellent ḥaver, on his behalf so he can strive for him for 


heaven’s sake. Whatever need my lord and elder has, it will honor me 


to fulfill it. May you never deprive me of your letters, for I 


rejoice in them. I send you the best greetings of peace. 


 
Recto, right-hand margins
and to your brothers, may God endow them with life, (I send) the utmost greetings of peace, and to my lord, Abū al-Faḍl the parnas, and to his child, greetings. My (paternal) uncle sends you greetings.
Recto


In Y(our) N(ame), Oh M(erciful),


(This is) my letter (to you), may God prolong the life of my lord, the excellent elder, and make lasting his honor, 


strength, happiness, and health. I have delayed my letters to 


my lord the elder all this time only due to (my) preference to alleviate the burden (of your having to answer back). 


Even though (our) correspondence was irregular, whenever someone comes down (the Nile) from Fusṭāṭ, 


I ask about your news, and he informs me about your health and the health of your sons,


 