Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
I have written to you, my son, who is dear to me, the commander (at) Ibrīm, may God prolong your life and cause your strength,
your support, your happiness and your good health to endure. I am writing to you in a state of wellness and good health,
praise be to God for that. I inform you, my son, that I had sent you
the advance consignment immediately after asking the commander, Treasure of the Dynasty (Kanz al-Dawla), may He cause his power to endure, (to dispatch it)
and he sent it with a reliable person indicating that he would meet ʿAbd al-Bāqī and deliver it to him.
He went on part of the way, but then returned, and it (the advance consignment) has remained with us until
this day. I have (now) sent it to you with ʿAbd al-Bāqī. It contains nine
raṭls. I hope I shall come and assign to you
nine and a half raṭls for a dīnār. I have sold the mattress for a dīnār and a half
and the two tunics for half a dīnār. This made a total of two dīnārs. I handed over to the fur merchant
three dīnārs and sent them to you. He took for himself the saffron for two dīnārs. He also took
for a dīnār a coloured luxury item, and I took for you civet perfume for two qīrāṭs. I took candles for a qīrāṭ.
I took for a qīrāṭ aloes and for two qīrāṭs saffron. I took for two qīrāṭs beads.
I took for a qīrāṭ and a half cinnamon. I took for a qīrāṭ sprigs and herbs, and a rope for binding a load
for a qīrāṭ and a half, and a sample, and a brass lock, a quarter of a dīnār, in the form of a small coin, beads,
a sixth of a dīnār. I paid to ʿAbd al-Bāqī a sixth of a dīnār apart from the fee for
the credit that would remain with you of an eighth of a dīnār. I wanted to inform you of this
so that you are aware of it. If you have any requests, write to him concerning them and they will be carried out. I pray to God

Verso

that your children and your father are in good health. I have paid to him (ʿAbd al-Bāqī?)
through ʾAbū al-Ḥusayn, the coppersmith, the two tunics and the glass. I wanted to tell you
that I send you best wishes. My son sends you wishes.
Write to me if anything untoward comes up and you want some request to be carried out.
Indeed let me know so that I can deal with it. You ask concerning the straw-dealer called
Muslim “Is my bed, which has gold in it, with him?” I have been told that he has come
upon something lucrative. Best wishes. Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso - address

My son, who is dear to me, Abū l-Qāsim Hibat Allāh
ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Aʿmā,
may God prolong his life and cause his power and strength to endure.
From ʿAbd al-Karīm ibn al-Ḥasan
ibn Dāʾūd
to Ibrīm, if God wills.
