Left side (1)

Which we must talk about [ ] this question [                    ]
The true meaning of their statement [ ] the law of the kingdom is the law (dina de-malkhuta dina) [    ] because we
saw that this inquirer had made this his prooftext and the foundations on which he built
his legal query and we will discuss the question itself afterwards. We say
that what we learned from the statements of the rabbis about this is rabbi Shemuʾel said:
The law of the kingdom is the law, etc.” Since we [already] clarified the meaning
of the saying the law of the kingdom is the law and we believe that it is sufficient
for the true people of knowledge, let us apply [this principle] 
to the question [that was presented to us]. We say that the matter of the partakers in the partnership (shirka) 
mentioned in this question necessarily follows one of the two following possibilities: either 
they made stipulations between them or they did not. (1) If they made 
stipulations between them, the money is counted accordingly without gain or loss, because  
the law follows rabbi Yehuda, who says “every stipulation that pertains to his money stands.” 
This saying is applicable to anyone whose partnership is sound because for any 
partnership that is not sound, the stipulations are also unsound. A sound partnership requires 
eight aspects. The first one is that the two partners should be of sound mind. 
The second is that two partners should be free. The third is that partners should have reached puberty.
The fourth is that the partners are free to dispose of their property. The fifth is that 
their respective share in the capital is known and clearly defined.

Right side

(A) If they were both deficient in intellect, or one of them was deficient in intellect, the partnership between them is not valid
(B) If they were both slaves, or one of them was a slave,
their partnership is not valid.         (C) If they were both minors, or
one of them was a minor, their partnership is not valid, if they are both
prohibited by the judge from using their money according to their free will and if they don’t have capacity (ḍabṭ) and power (ḥazm) [over their affairs]; for
if they have capacity and power (over their affairs), their sales and their contracts are permitted according to their saying
 a purchase (made) by young children is (a valid) purchase, and a sale (made by them is a valid) sale. (These laws apply) to (transactions involving) movable property. And they said: Rav
Yehuda pointed to Rav Yitzḥak, his son: (From the age of) about six or seven. Rav Kahana said:
(From the age of) about seven or eight. It was taught in a baraita: From the age of about nine or ten.
(The Gemara comments:) And they do not disagree (about the issue itself; rather,) each (child is evaluated) according to his sharpness. According to this,
if they are not prohibited by the judge from using their money according to their free will, then their transactions and contracts are permitted in accordance with the statement of 
Rafram (who) said: They taught this only if there is no steward (apotropos) (overseeing the children’s affairs.) However, if there is
a steward, the (children’s) acquisitions are not acquisitions and their sales are not sales. 
{Unless the child who appears to be underaged is a
an orphan, then the beit din, or a trustee (waṣī), or an agent (wakīl) contracts for him. It is permitted for the one who has reached puberty and the orphan to contract a partnership between them according to the statement of Rabba bar Sheila who says that Rav Ḥisda says, and some say that Rabba bar Yosef bar Ḥama says that Rav Sheshet says: “It is permitted to lend the money of orphans (to be invested in a business venture) that is close to profit and far from loss”. The orphans… indeed.}   
              (D) If
they were both prohibited by the judge from using their money according to their free will, or if one of them was 
their partnership is not permitted except for the transactions that are registered for him. The same rule applies to women
who are married according to the statement there is no qinyan for a woman without her husband.    (E) If one them was 
a Jew and the other a gentile, their partnership is not valid according to the statement of
Avudah Shemu’el : it is forbidden to a man that he should make a partnership with a gentile
lest he requires an oath from him and he swears in the name of idolatry, and the Torah says:
(one) may not vow in the name of (an idol).  The partnership between a Jew and a gentile is permitted 
upon four conditions

 
Left side

The first is if they entered a partnership in trees of harvesting, the Jew must
agree that the gentile harvests on the day of Sabbath and the Jew harvests
on Sundays. If he doesn’t agree to this (condition) from the outset, but has waited 
until the time of final accounting to subtract the day of Sabbath in the account, it is not permitted
for the[ir] saying: (there were) certain saffron growers (who jointly owned a field in an arrangement according to) which a gentile 
took possession on sabbath and the Jew buys on sunday. They came before Rava, to find out if they could divide their profits equally, 
and Rava permitted them to do so. Ravina raised an objection to the ruling of Rava from a baraita: In the case of a Jew and a gentile who received tenancy of a field in partnership,
the Jew may not say to the gentile: Take your portion of (the profit for your work) on Shabbat, and I (will take my portion for my work) on (one of the days of the rest of) the week. 
But if they initially stipulated (when they entered into their partnership that the gentile would receive a share of the profit in exchange for his work on Shabbat, and the Jew would receive a share for the work that he performs during one of the days of the week, it is) permitted. And if (they did not make this stipulation and later) came to calculate (the number of weekdays for which the Jew should receive the profit, corresponding to the number of Shabbatot that the gentile worked, it is) prohibited,
(as this would mean that when the gentile worked on Shabbat, he was working on behalf of the Jew. Rava was) embarrassed (that he had ruled incorrectly.) Ultimately, the matter was revealed that (the saffron growers) had stipulated from the outset (that this was the arrangement, and therefore even according to the baraita Rava had ruled correctly.)
The second is if they have a partnership in trees, and part of this work consists in
orlah, then it is permitted for the Jew to make an agreement with the gentile so that he (the gentile) takes the profit during
the years of the orlah, and the Jew takes the profit during the other years, according to the saying: Rav
Geviha from Bei Ketil said (that the incident was actually as follows: The Jew and the gentile formed a partnership with regard to) those orlah saplings, (to tend to them and sell them.) The gentile would (work and) profit (from them during)
the orlah years, and the Jew (would work and profit from them during) the years where (the fruit is) permitted. They came before Rava, (who) permitted them (to do so.) 
But didn’t Ravina object to Rava? (No, Ravina’s intention was) to provide support for (the ruling of Rava.) But (wasn’t Rava) embarrassed (by Ravina’s statement?) That never happened.
The third one is if they had a partnership in instruments and objects, it is permitted for the Jew
To let the gentile use them on the Sabbath if they were in his possession before the Sabbath
For the[ir] saying: who is the tanna who states that the obligation of the resting utensils? It is Beit Shammai. And the law is not what they (i.e, Beit Shammai) said. 
The fourth one is that if their partnership was in immovable properties such as the the bath-houses,
the mills, and suchlike, then the Jew must agree with the gentile about the fact that 
the gentile takes the profit on Sabbath and the Jew [...] on weekdays for the saying of Rabbi Shemu’el Ben Elazar
A person may not rent his field to a Samaritan, since it is called by the name of (the owner).
If the partnership between the Jew and the Gentile concerned something outside these four aspects, {the partnership is corrupted and is unsound.}

Right side

The sixth is that the invested capital should not originate from something illicit.
The seventh is that the invested capital should not originate from the price of something illicit.
The eighth is that the partners should be Jews. If their partnership was 
sound according to what we just mentioned and included a stipulation (tenai), it shall be carried on.
(2) If there was no stipulation (tenai) between them, rather their partnership was dubious (mubham)
according to what appears in this question. The ruling about the matter is two-fold. First,
if the head of the house (ustādh al-dār) said to all the partners “I granted and exempted 
you from the entirety of the penalty that you should have paid for those lost money (or goods) of such-and-such amount of dinars because of 
such-and-such my partner”, his saying this is valid and. By saying this, he commands them 
that they will not be repaid anything; or Simeon says to Reuben “I will work as much as I can 
to collect what could be collected from this money (or goods), except that whatever I collect
will belong to me”, then after that whatever the other partners payed, Simeon will not owe
any of it since they stated that partners who were forgiven part of their taxes by the tax-collectors, what they have been remitted 
falls to the common fund.
