

On the 21 of the month of Marheshwan of
the year thousand …. of the documents, in the city of Damascus that is situated on the  (Amānā and Parpar) rivers
(we entered the house of) His Great Holiness, our Lord and Master Yefet ha-Levi, the Dear Prince, the Scholar ….
(the son of ….) ha-Levi, the Honorable Elder, the Pride of the Levites and their Glory, of blessed memory, and we found him
(sick, lying in his bed, while his senses were with him), his mind was sound. So we asked what time it was and who the persons (present) were, and he answered us like
(all people who negotiate on their  feet in the market, saying ….) from now on I have donated to Their Honor
…. Honorable, Wise, Intelligent, the Distinguished Judge, the Excellent Sage,
…. of the Elders, of blessed memory, and His Great Holiness, our Lord and Master Yeqūtīʾēl ha-Levi, the Honorable Prince, the Sage
…. of the Souls, the Pride of the Physicians, the Crown of the Levites, the son of His Great Holiness, our Lord and Master
…. our Lord and Master Petaḥyā ha-Levi the Honorable Prince, the Physician, the Elect of the Levites
…. that I give to each of them four cubits of land from the lot which I have  in the Land (of Israel)
…. (a gift that is ….) complete, valid, legal against anything that might (be) brought up
…. (each) of them (I declared) trustworthy in whatever he would do, like two able witnesses
…. (and they are released from any oath) even from an anonymous ban. Each of them may nominate an overseer
…. (whomever he would) choose. Nobody could object, either in advance or
(afterwards …. I donated) from now on to the students of the Torah of Damascus eight parts of
(twenty-four, being a) third of the entire kharājī plantation that is in the village of Ḥammūriyya
(in the vicinity ot) Damascus, (the plantation) known before as “of the children of al-ʿAdl” and today it is mine and my brother's
…. Murajjā, of blessed memory. Each of us owns a third. There are in it trees
…. (palm trees upon?) the channels, rūmī, fārisī, green dates, poplars, and it is divided
(there is) in it one large house. Its fame makes the description of its boundaries superfluous.
…. (its revenue) shall be distributed every year among those who study the Torah
…. for (taking) their free time and for reading, if they confine themselves to the study
according to the opinion of the two trustees ….
….the daughter of al-Wazar  R. …. 
