Recto
… forty […]who is known as Ibn Zaffān since he was […] and now, “Testify before me and perform a qinyan […]using all the appropriate legal formulae and [the] expressions of certainty, and all the language used for claims, and give thatto his son //M(r.)// Ḥalfōn, known as Abū [Sa‘ī]d, and to his mother and his sister, and to all the heirs of this Moses (whose) s(oul is at) r(est) b. Ḥalfōn,so that they would have in their hands proof and a legal claim from this day forward. This was according to my free will, not under duress norunder compulsion norany of the like from all the factors which invalidate testimony, rather with a whole heart and a desirous s[ou]l, Iattest before you that I absolve this Moses, (who) r(ests in) E(den), from the financial transactions (mu‘āmalāt)between me and himand from the shipments mentioned above, and from my partnership (khulṭa) with the non-Jew and from the like; and from all that to which he could turnand from all that which passed //between us// from the beginning of time up till the day of his death, may it be an atonement for him and for their house, and for all [Israel]and I have released him completely from all the like, both with oral testament and in (my) heart, for all that I know and that which has been hidden from me.Likewise, I absolve M(r.) Ḥalfōn—known as Abū Sa‘īd—his son, and his mother who was the wife of  this Moses, (may he) r(est in Eden). And I absolve him and all of the descendants of this M(r.) Moses (may his) s(oul find) r(est), from all the claims and demandsconcerning these shipments of merchandise mentioned above as well as others, from the part (that is, the responsibility) of M(r.) Moses (who) r(ests in) E(den) and from their partwith a total, complete absolution, severing all claims and demands in an irreversible absolution,immune to argument and not subject to any interpretation weakening it, an absolution from me—me, Ephraim b. Ḥalfōn—in my lifetime and from my heirs aftermy death, from every debt and matter from clear claims and possible claims, and from any matter which could be called “financial”, and from (the claim of) overreachingand grievance (claims), within the earthly jurisdiction and the Heavenly jurisdiction, and from oaths and decrees and from rider oaths and pronouncements,both general and specific, and from the determination of any court, whether in Jewish law or gentile law. I have released them from no[w on] fromall negligence or omission, proceeding from them from the beginning of time up till now, with a complete irreversible releasefor all generations. I, Ephraim b. Ḥalfōn, have no (right of) reversal of claim(s) upon the descendants of this //M(r.)// Moses in the name ofanything at all from that which proceeded between me and this M(r.) Moses, m(ay his) s(oul find rest), nor in that which proceeded between me and them in their own possessions from the beginning of time up till now, since nothing remains with me on their part, nor is there on the part oftheir heirs any sort of claim, neither a legacy, nor a dinar nor a dirham nor merchandisenor a guarantee nor a security, nor an account nor an accounting error nor the remainder of an account, nor a legal judgment, nor anything whatsoever fromall matters which people may possess under all the Heavens equivalent to or greater than a farthing. Thus, they are freedfrom all types of oaths. They are completely free and completely released (from any obligation), both by means of oral testament and in (my) heart, in this world and in the world to come.I took that responsibility upon myself for them, and the responsibility of the non-Jew who was my partner in the cloth. I have also nullified all secret dispositions and conditions which may be made for me and which we have made in connection with this document of release, which is as established by the Sa(ges), (may their) m(emory be) f(or a blessing), not like promises and not like formularies, rather but rather (bears) the weight and force of all legal documents of the court, which the Sages instituted, and which are universally employedfrom this day forward. We, the witnesses, performed a qinyan with Ephraim b. Ḥalfōn and with M(r.) Ḥalfōn b. Moses m(ay his) s(oul find rest), and with all his descendantsconcerning all that which is written and specified above, with an item suitable for doing so. Proper and enduring. Hanging (between the lines): “that which was between us”Moses ha-Kohen b. Aaron, (who) r(ests in) E(den)  Manasseh ha-Kohen b. Japheth (may his) s(oul find) r(est)    Hanging (between the lines): “Enduring and this is its confirmation”   We do not rely on that which is in the (other) authoritative document, or (derives) from it. //It is enduring// and this is its confirmation.Moses b. Solomon m(ay his) s(oul find rest)     Yeshu‘a b. Shemariah m(ay his) s(oul find rest)