Recto
[…] this maintenance for a period, the start of which being the date of (this) doc[ument …][…] and an agreement also took place between us, that we would live (together) in a single dwelling, and that we would eat from a single tablefor the duration of this partnership (shirka), and we would take from the shop everything we need for support of the household in terms of food and drink. Beyond this, each of us would be entitled to a dirham each day, which he could spend however he might want and he might choose for his necessities. Ifthe aforementioned Mufaḍḍal wishes to watch out for himself, and that he would se[parate] from his brother Abū al-Faraj in the matter of food and drink, he would takefrom the store two dirhams each day, and his brother Abū al-Faraj would take four dirhams each day, for the duration of this partnership (shirka). Whateverexalted God facilitated for the two of them therein beyond the aforementioned support food and as for difficulties with provisions and rent and other difficulties that may befall them, they will share that equally. If either of them pursues a change in the profit of the partnership (shirka),he will act with trust and avoidance of betrayal, and the supervision of God, praised be He, in everything that he does and with which he is entrusted. We performed a qinyan with boththe aforementioned Abū al-Faraj and his brother Abū al-Mufaḍḍal, a complete and weighty qinyan, with an item suitable for doing so, with the formula “effective immediately”, in accordance with his will,without any compulsion whatsoever, nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions, concerning all that which is written and stipulated above. Added between the lines: “It is proper (and) enduring”We wrote and signed that which took place before us, in order that there would be a title of right and proof. Everything is proper and clear and enduring.Joseph ha-Levi b. Samuel (may the) Merci(ful One) pro(tect him)     Levi ha-Levi b. Abraham (may the) m(emory of the) r(ighteous be) f(or a blessing)
Verso
… this document from the last ten-day period of the month of Av of the year 1492