Recto

I was present at the aforementioned inquest, and the matter is as mentioned and described herein.
I testify that the guarantors mentioned [in it] have acknowledged [that they guarantee] this
assessment in the aforementioned presence. Yaḥyā b. Ismaʿīl and Muḥammad b. Salim wrote it on the date:
10 Jumāda I.
I was present at the aforementioned inquest, and the matter is as mentioned and described herein.
I testify that the guarantors mentioned herein have acknowledged that they guarantee this assessment in the aforementioned
presence. Khalaf b. Ibrahīm and Mīnā b. Nāsārus(?)/Mubārak(?) wrote it on the date: 
10 Jumāda I. 
I was present at the assessment and I found [the inquest] into the matter to be according to what is mentioned herein. I testify
that the guarators mentioned herein have acknowledged (it). Ismaʿīl b. Mūsā b. Muḥammad wrote in on the (same) date: 
10 Jumāda I. 

Verso

The government dīwān
Legal (?)
In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate.
A record of it:
This inspection (occurred) on the date mentioned herein.
Each of the following acknowledged (it): Ibrahīm b. Salāma, ʿAli b. Ḥasan b. Yaḥyā, Mūsā b. Mūsā b. Ibrahīm, Khalaf b. Nasṭūrus and Ṣadaqa b. Ḥasan,
guarantors (ḍumanāʾ) of debt to the government ... for the aforementioned guarantors. They testified voluntarily, in sound health and permissible state, without coercion, force, or compulsion,
that this assessment is their assessment and their submission, entirely their property for the aforementioned wage (?), and that they have not withheld anything from it, whether small or large.
They guaranteed what was written herein as a debt to our master and lord the imām al-Āmir bi-aḥkām allāh, commander of the faithful, blessings of God be upon him and upon
his pure ancestors and awaited descendants, and (to) his servant the most lofty lord al-Afḍal, commander of the armies, sword of Islam,
supporter of the imām, guardian of the judges of the Muslims, guide of the missionaries of the believers, may Allah strengthen the religion through him and grant the commander of the faithful enjoyment through his long life.
