Recto


 


... dirham 


Purchased with this:


lac sent in four pieces {alt. tr.: units}, price: 1,000 dirhems;


a small bale of spikenard: 300 dirhems;


three bales and two kawrajas of ‘fulled’ textiles: 1,200 dirhems;


‘lightgoods’: 100 dirhems;


Total: 2,600 dirhems.


The ‘fulled’ were sold in Aden; the proceeds after deduction of the customs paid for them: 330 Malikī dinars;


Customs for the lac: 80 Malikī dinars;


Living expenses {alt. tr.: tolls} in Aden, rent for a storage room, an additional one, a bungalow, etc.: 30 dinars


Balance: 220 Malikī dinars.


Add to this the proceeds for ‘light goods’ sold in Aden: 50 dinars;


Total: 270 dinars.


The lac was packed in Aden in 8 bales.


Bought six bahārs of brazilwood: 100 dinars;


Two bahārs of cinnamon: 29 dinars;


and five manns of rhubarb: 15 dinars;


Total sent from Aden:


Eight bales of lac, two bags of cinnamon,


Six bags of brazilwood and five manns of rhubarb.


Balance of the Malikī dinars ⟦after the packing of the bal…⟧ after the aforementioned purchases:


126 Malikī dinars.


Spent from this in Aden for


packing materials, hides, baskets of palm leaves, ropes, and the packer: 12 dinars;


Exit toll at the Furḍa: 16 dinars;


Ship’s freight: 28 dinars;


Customs in Bāḍiʿ, Dahlak, and Nizāla: 38 dinars.


Verso


In Sawākin: 1 Egyptian mithqāl.


The remaining 20 of the thawbs (robes)


that had been bought were used for the payment of customs.


They were sold {alt. tr.: There remained 20 thawbs (robes, or: thawb units) from all the clothing, which had been purchased, and they were used for the payment of customs; they were sold} in Sawākin for 10 dinars which sum was spent for the payment of customs in ʿAydhāb.


The man who received (the goods of) Ibn al-Ṭuwayr paid in ʿAydhāb the remainder of the second customs in Bāḍeʿ and


the balance of the customs in ʿAydhāb. The hiring of the camels {alt. tr.: the camel driver.} and the customs in Qūṣ and Fustat were also paid by him.


The goods were brought to the house of Ibn al-Ṭuwayr. He sold of them what was due him (from al-Nafūsī) {alt. tr.: due him for his expenditures},


and the rest remained with him. Not one single dirhem worth of this accrued to me,


nor have I received {add: from him} of its proceeds any goods or anything else.


A small sum {alt. tr.: a little/some merchandise} remained in my hands,


which was spent on the house bought {lit., ‘collected’} for him (al-Nafūsī).


Mr. Berākhōt, son of the elder R. Joseph


Lebdi—may he rest in Eden!—appeared before us and declared that he had dictated this entire


account, and that all that remained with him, besides


what went into the house of Ibn al-Ṭuwayr, was spent on the house


belonging to Sheikh Isḥāq al-Nafūsī—may his Rock preserve him!—which is registered in his name,


after it was bought by ʿAllūsh {lit., ‘which is part of what ʿAllūsh bought’} in the name of his brother Isḥāq—may his Rock preserve him! In this are included


10 dinars, which he (Nafūsī) had promised to the beadle Barakāt, the Kohen, b.


ʿAmmār. After all this, nothing worth even a penny has remained with him (Barakāt Lebdi)


from all that had been delivered to him. We wrote this as


a confirmation of rights and a proof. This happened on Tuesday, the seventh of Shevat 1443


E.D. He said that these expenses were made on the instructions of Sheikh


Abū Saʿīd, his honor, great and holy master and lord Ḥalfon ha-Levi—may his Rock preserve him!—son of our lord Nethanel ha-Levi— 


may his memory be blessed!—the representative of the aforementioned Sheikh Isḥāq. Sheikh Abū Saʿīd


confirmed that he had ordered these actions, because he had regarded them


as beneficial. We wrote this too, etc.


Judah ha-Kohen b. Joseph ha-Kohen—may his end be good!—offspring of Yehōsēf Kohen Sedeq—the memory of the righteous is blessed!


Zechariah b. Sar Shālōm—may he rest in Eden!


\\Ḥalfon ha-Levi b. Manasseh—may he rest in Eden!//

