recto

In the name of God the Merciful and Compassionate.
ʿUbayd Allāh ibn Ḥasan, the trader, acknowledged and called people to be his witnesses, in sound mind and body, legally capable of conducting his affairs, willing,
not forced that he owes, has in his possession, is in debt to Merki ibn Abrām, the freedman of the rightly-guided, prosperous, just judge,
Trust of the Kingdom, ʾAbū al-Khayr ʾIbrāhīm ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Zubayr one dīnār and half a dīnār, gold, minted coin, full weight, in the Egyptian coinage of al-ʾĀmir,
of good alloy, an established debt, a valid binding right with legal force owed to him by him. He acknowledges that he will return this amount, which he has taken, its complete portion,
a dīnār and a half mentioned in this document, and convey it to him and undertake this in the first ten days of Dhū al-Ḥijja
of the year five-hundred and fifteen (10th–19th February 1122 AD), without delay, without obstruction, without an oath, without (a different) interpretation, this being by virtue of valid, binding right with legal force. He (the creditor) recognised it was owed to him and it became an obligation for him (the debtor)
through the acknowledgement; and he (the debtor) acknowledged the receipt of that, through which he (the creditor) would have a right with regard to the aforementioned due date, through a discussion between them regarding that. Witnesses witnessed the acknowledgement by the acknowledger of the debt
and the creditor who are named in this document of what relates to them in it, in sound mind and body, legally capable of conducting their affairs, willing, not forced.
That was in the first ten days of the month Ramaḍān in the year five-hundred and fifteen (13th–22nd November 1121 AD). It was witnessed.

recto, witness clauses

ʾIbrāhīm ibn ʾAḥmad ibn ʾIbrāhīm ibn Naṣr witnessed
the acknowledgement by the acknowledger of the debt of what is attributed to him in it, and he wrote
with his own handwriting on its date.
ʾAḥmad ibn al-Ḥusayn ibn Muḥammad ibn Manṣūr witnessed the acknowledgement
by the acknowledger of the debt and the one to whom the acknowledgement was made of what was attributed to them in it, and he wrote with his own handwriting
on its date.
That was witnessed and by God (there is) a correction (in it).

verso

Merki ibn Abrām, the freedman of the rightly-guided, prosperous, just judge, Trust of the Kingdom,
who is named on the recto, called me to witness that he has received in full a debt that he has from ʿUbayd Allāh ibn Ḥasan,
who is named on the recto, in that he, the aforementioned ʿUbayd Allāh, paid a quarter of a dīnār and an eighth of gold,
in coins of full weight, of al-ʾĀmir. The aforementioned (Merki) released the aforementioned ʿUbayd Allāh, ⟦the debtor⟧, who expressed his thanks,
a release of receipt in full. It was written by Muḥammad ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʿAlī in his hand, in the
last ten days of the month of Ramaḍān of the year five- hundred and sixteen (23rd November–2nd December 1122 AD).
Merki ibn Abrām, the freedman of the rightly-guided, prosperous, just judge, Trust of the Kingdom, ʾAbū al-Ḵayr ʾIbrāhīm ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Ḥusayn
ibn al-Zubayr, asked me to testify with regard to himself, while he was in health, while his acts were legal, and he acted willingly, that he has received in full from ʿAbd Allāh, a freedman, substituting for his father,
a quarter, a sixth and an eighth of a dīnār, in gold coinage of al-ʾĀmir, full weight, of good alloy, on behalf of his debtor ʿUbayd Allāh ibn Ḥasan,
who is named on the recto; and he released him from that with a release of full receipt; and that the remainder that is owed to him by his debtor is a quarter and two sixths
of a dīnār, in cash. It was written by ʿAlī ibn ʿ Ubayd Allāh ibn Muḥammad ibn Turkī in his own hand, in the last ten days
of Shawwāl, in the year five-hundred and sixteen (22nd–31st December 1122 AD). That was after he had received a legal injunction against him for the remainder, which was written by ʿAbd Allāh
ibn Muḥammad ibn Tawfīq ibn Ḥusayn in the last ten days of Shawwāl of the year five-hundred and sixteen (22nd–31st December 1122 AD). He wrote with his own hand.
His receipt of the legal injunction against him was by means of a full, ratifying oath sworn by God, other than whom there is no other God. He received it in the way
that other Muslims like him swear (oathes), in Shawwāl of the year five-hundred and sixteen (December 1122 AD). He wrote with his own hand.
Everything that Merki ibn Abrām asked the witness whose writing is above
this writing of mine to witness he made me (also) witness, and I was present at the receipt of the injunction against him (i.e., against the debtor), the ratifying oath,
as such similar (oaths) are sworn. This was in Shawwāl of the year five-hundred and sixteen (December 1122 AD).
It was written by Muḥammad ibn Yaḥyā ibn ʾIbrāhīm al-ʾAnṭākī on its date.
