
In (Your name, o) Me(rciful). 
And we pray for the life of our lord, the g(reat) k(ing), //
the prince of the sons of Kedar, our master and lord, the Imām // al-Āmir bī'aḥ(kām) Allāh, the Commander of the F(aithful) and for his sons, the r(oyal family),
and all persons of his e(ntourage), who serve the k(ing) out of love and wa(ge)
w(ar) f(or him) against his e(nemies). May G(od) — m(ay He be) p(raised) - help them and help us; may He subdue
their foes and ours; and may He fill their hearts with kindness t(owards us)
and towards all His people, the house of Is(rael), and let us s(ay) Amen. 
Blessed be the memory of those whose souls rest in peace, namely, the Gaons of Israel, the heads
of their yeshivas, their chief judges, their scholars
and public leaders, who have ruled over the people of the Lord of Hosts
in fairness and integrity prior to our present lord and Gaon, namely...
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
... And may life, p(eace) and honor,
longevity and fulfillment of all wishes, an auspicious star
and all of the blessings pr(onounced) by the prophets be granted to
his h(onor), g(reatness), and h(oliness), (our) m(aster and) t(eacher), our lord and Gaon Maṣlīaḥ, the High Priest,
the head of the yeshiva "Geon Ya'aqov," the honored and revered.
May God bless him and make him great...
 
may He prolong his rule until the coming of the f(irst) kingdom.
In his time Judah will be saved and
Israel dwell securely. May God crown him with a crown of might.
May He grant that he find favor in the eyes of the king and of the great
and of all that see him. May our God bless also all Israel, // its heads, //
scholars, judges, learned men and notables,
here and in all the
settlements to which they have fled
in their exile, when they were forced to leave the land of their love and dwell
in countries not theirs, in East and West, North and South.
May He call out to gather us in and shorten our sufferings,
to fulfill that which is written... 
 
 
 
 
...May our God bless
everyone in this h(oly) congregation, old and
young, with all the blessings pronounced by the prophets; may He bless, k(eep) and h(elp) them, and may He answer them, before
they call, as it is written,
"Before they call, I shall answer them," together with all Israel), and let us s(ay) Amen. 

 