Recto


 
1. Testimony of what transpired before us, we the witnesses undersigned at the end of this document, thus 
2. it was. In the month of Tammuz of the year 1489 according to the counting of the Shṭarot
3. In Fustat, the domain of our lord, the great, Shmuʾel Ha-Nagid, may his name endure forever. 
4. We the undersigned made a complete and stringent qinyan from the Sheikh Abū Saʿd al-Ḥarīrī (the silk merchant/farmer) our teacher and rabbi Ḥalfon the honorable elder
5. son of our teacher and rabbi Yiṣḥaq the honorable ḥazan, may his resting place be Eden, with an implement fitting for the performance of a qinyan 
6. from that moment, with his consent and without coercion whatsoever, with the annulment of all secret dispositions and conditions. [This is a testimony] that he took and received
7. from Abū l-Maʿālī son of our teacher and rabbi Avraham the elder, may his resting place be Eden, three and half dīnārs of good Egyptian gold
8. in accordance with standard specie and weight (אלואזן בעד צחה אלנקד ואלוזן) and that this reached him completely
9. and in full. This is [the amount due] for the month of al-Muḥarram of the year 542
10. according to the Arab calendar, for the ḍamān of Bush and its environs. He also took
11. everything that he was owed by him, namely the ḍamān of the aforementioned Bush and its environs until the end
12. of the aforementioned al-Muḥarram. He owes him not even a single dirham from his previous ḍamān from [the period of] the 
13. previous year until the end of the aforementioned al- Muḥarram.  He has also released him 
14. from all claims, demands, connections and responsibilities which were
15. upon them from the beginning of time up till now, those that he was aware of and those that he was not,
16. those that were known to him and those that were not, whatever it might be or amount to – 
17. a total, complete, definitive, conclusive absolution in his lifetime and for his inheritors after him …..
18. from everything that relates to the ḍamān of silk in the aforementioned Bush
19. and its environs and from all the oaths concerning anything therein, grave and simple, 
20. and even rider oaths and even herem setam, and then we wrote that and signed it
21. and delivered it to this Abū l-Maʿālī so that it would be a proof and legal document in his hand from this day onwards. [Everything is] proper
22. and clear and enduring […] and everything is enduring. Saʿadya son of Mevoraḥ, may his resting place be Eden
23. Ṣemaḥ ha-Kohen son of Shemuʾel Ha-Kohen, may his resting place be Eden. 

