Recto


And as far as the argument in favor of the two synagogues and the two authorities is concerned, (it has already been refuted by) Ibn


Sijilmasi, for when two authorities are permissible, there would be permissible


three and even more, and this would lead to endless anarchy,


to the robbing of land and goods, to the rape of women and the end of rights.


The benefaction bestowed (on me) then would be no benefaction at all, and it would be impossible to get even from the simplest


man what was due from him.


It is the law of our religion that there should be no authority above


the authority of Jerusalem, for the Holy City is the place towards which all (Jews) turn in prayer, and God, may He be exalted, has ordained


that the commands of the Head who will be in Jerusalem shall be obeyed and his leadership 


followed, and that he who disobeys him, disobeys God. This is expressly stated


in their Torah. And just as the body cannot exist with two heads, so there is


no learning in a town with two rabbis. These synagogues of the Iraqis are attributed


to them, because they have the custom of keeping a second day after


they keep with us a holiday. This was permitted to them by the Heads of Jerusalem


as a special favor so that they could pray there on the day of their holiday, which is on the day


following our holiday, which they keep together with us, but nothing


else. The proof of the truth of what your servants have said is that in Palestine


there are various places, in which there are synagogues of Iraqis, but these are solely


for prayer, and they have not in them a Judge or any other official. All they are allowed


to do is granted to them as a favor on the side of the Head who is in Jerusalem all the time, for they


come to Jerusalem for the pilgrimage. This affair is a machination


of the partisans of Joseph, who agitate for the leaders of Iraq. For they have connived


with him, that if he should succeed in getting your signature, approving him


a headship, this would strengthen them in what they intended to do for Joseph and his like.


However, our Lord — may God pray upon him and upon his pure (i. e. defunct) fathers — in his farsightedness will


grant the request of his servants to repudiate those people


who try to split up what is bestowed upon your servant; for,


when he will get a partner in this benefaction, it will become a vexation. The pure excellencies (i. e. the defunct notables) have made grants


in many letters to many Heads in the course of time — the archives


testify to this — but they have never given to anyone of them a partner, in what they bestowed


upon them, for the letter of the Government — may God bestow glory upon its victories — is laid down ... 


A(nd the well-being of your) H(ighness) m(ay increase), n(ot) d(ecrease); and Peace! 
 