
‘Happy are those who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times’  (Pss 106:3).  
‘They have distributed freely, they have given to the poor; their righteousness endures forever; their horn is exalted in honour’ (Pss 112:9).
To the honourable, great, holy, venerable, dear, splendid, glorious diadem and crown;  
to this holy community, who are pious, righteous, upright and pure,
who tremble at the word of the Lord – may God preserve them – who  flourish […]  
about whom it was written in the Bible (Deut 1:11): ‘May the Lord increase you a thousand times more and bless you,  
as he has promised you!’ And may he save you from every distress and  anguish. Amen. Greetings  
from the Lord of Peace and from your servant Mosqo, who is poor,  cursed, wretched, penniless,  
impoverished, ‘an injured man’ (Prov 29:13) and blind, so that I cannot  see. May God be good to you and may you perform  
for me an act of charity and God shall reckon it to you as a righteous  act. For there are four souls with me,  
and they will die of hunger. For the sake of the Lord and your own  sakes, do not send me away from you empty-handed,  
for I trust in the Lord and in you. I have come before you like a bird in  a trap; do not leave me  
humiliated and [embittered (?).] I shall present my supplication before  the Lord and before you, to show me pity, to strengthen
my hands, according to your good custom. ‘Do not let the oppressed  return in shame’ (Pss 74:21). And for this kindness of yours
that you will do for me, may the Lord repay you, and may your reward  be complete from the Lord,  
God of [Israel]. May He bless you and multiply you and give you  Abraham’s blessing –  
to you and your descendants. And may He save you from all trials and  [tribulations], and from weeping and distress.  
[…] king. And may they be […]  
[…] you. [And] do not hide your eyes from me, because I have no one in the world  
to favour me except for you alone. May you merit looking upon the  delight of the Lord and visiting  
His temple, and may He fulfill for you the verse: ‘[For] plainly they  will see the return of  
[the Lord to Zion]’ (Isa 52:8). ‘Jacob will rejoice; Israel will be glad’  (Pss 14:7; 53:7). May your wellbeing increase and may your honour  
accrue, and may it not diminish, but grow greater forever. Amen Sela.  


Mosqos  
