

[…] … in total and pa[id…]


[…] good … from which one hundred […] Mr. Japheth .. hundred dinars …


… Amat al-Qādir concerning the judgment of that which he appointed him concerning … and m(aster) Shela, my husband, (who) r(ests in) E(den), in his will, a third of his assets


in order for him to travel with the total in the direction of Yemen, buying with it whatever he sees fit in terms of merchandise, and returning to Fusṭāṭ with it, and whatever


exalted God facilitates therein in terms of profit, after complete and total repayment of the capital, 


he will be entitled to a third as a claim for his service, and (the remaining) two thirds will be for all of us. Each of us will take his portion therefrom, and M(r.) ‘Arūs does not bear


responsibility for peril, may God forbid it, nor any of the like. This Mr. ‘Arūs b. Mr. Joseph (who) r(ests in) E(den) came and said, “Testify


on my behalf, and perform a qinyan with me, effective immediately, write and sign on my behalf using all the appropriate legal formulae and the expressions of certainty


and all the language of claims, and give that to these (individuals), Mr. Japheth and Amat al-Qādir, in order that there would be in their hands from this day


forward proof and a legal claim that I attest before you with the most certain expressions of affirmation, that I have received


this aforementioned three hundred dinars from the two of them, as (settlement of) the described case, with a full heart,


upright intention and correct design; and I will work therein with the support of the Creator, may His Name be exalted, as though I were working with my own assets


with caution in selling and buying, transacting and traveling, and whatever comes about therein. I will neglect nothing


which will return the good condition of this merchandise, and I will strive therein as with my own assets. Upon my return


to Fusṭāṭ, a third of what exalted God facilitates therein in terms of profit will be for me, as a claim for my service, and the two of them together


will have the (remaining) two thirds. I have taken these conditions upon myself in accordance with my will and desire.” At that moment, we,


the undersigned witnesses, performed a qinyan with Mr. Japheth and Amat al-Qādir together concerning everything mentioned above in this text


in terms of release and conditions concerning the third of the profit of these three hundred dinars, and (a qinyan) with 


this Mr. ‘Arūs b. Mr. Joseph (who) r(ests in) E(den,) that he obligated himself to this Mr. Japheth and Amat al-Qādi[r]


likewise (concerning) all the matters in which they are obligated to him, and he … in the above upon them, a claim between the two of them …


nor any possible reason. He has also received this aforementioned three hundred dinars


subject to the aforementioned condition. (This qinyan was effected) with an item suitable for doing so, concerning everything written and stipulated above. We wrote


and signed two copies of this testimony and gave it to all of them in order that they would have in their hands a title of right and proof.


Manasseh ha-Kohen b. Japheth (may his) s(oul find) r(est)     Hillel the Ḥazzan b. ‘Ali (may his) m(emory be) f(or a blessing)     Yair b. Eleazar (who) r(ests in) E(den)


 