Recto
Testimony which was given before us, we [the witnesses who have signed our hands below at the end of] this [document.]Thus: M(r.) Joseph b. Sam[uel …] appeared before us in court, [testifying before you to the soundness]of his mind and body and the freedom of his will, will[ingly, under neither duress nor force nor compulsion, with neither negligence]nor error, with neither illness nor disease, nor any of the like ]from all the factors which invalidate testimony.]He said to us: “Testify concerning me and perform a qinyan with me from [now on, write and sign on my behalf using all the] appropriate legal [formulae]and the expressions of certainty, and all the lang[u]age of claims, [… and gave i]tto his honor, his h(oliness, our) te(acher) and ma(ster) Manasseh ha-Dayyan b. Phineas (who) r(ests in) E(den), in order that he would have in his hand proof and a legal claim [from now] onthat I have no claim to anything which he has, nor anything in his possession, nor anything to which he can lay claim, nor a demand of any sort,nor a legal claim of any sort, neither dinar nor dirham, neither gold nor silver, neither smithed nor raw, neither anklets nor black clothing, neither clothing nor cloth, neither appliance nor instrument,neither equipment nor material, neither merchandise nor goods, neither a partnership (shirka) nor a joint investment (khulṭa), neither depositnor pledge, neither loan nor commenda, neither rental nor lease, neither wages nor deposit,neither dispatch nor directive, neither loan nor responsibility, neither account nor remainder of account nor errorin accounting, nor anything under all the Heavens which one could possess and by which one could become wealthy, whether real estateor movable property. I have released him from all legal claims and demands, a complete, cumulative,irreversible, unconditional release, without interpretation diminishing it; a release clear as to its inner intent. I have also released him from all types of oaths, both grave and simple, from Torahiticoaths and oaths instituted by the Sages as well as rider oaths, and even ḥerem [setam.] I have [re]leased him completely, both with oral testament and in (my) heart, in this world and in the world to come. Any demand which I may demand or legal claim which I will makeupon him or anything I will dispute after my writing of this release, will be untrue and false and n[ull]and one may not turn to them, nor judge based upon them, as I have no right of any sort before him at all, nor any sort of legal claim, nor any sort of demand. I wrote him this releasein order that he would have proof against me in my lifetime and against my heirs after my death, for him in his lifetime and for his heirsafter his death. I have taken upon myself and upon my heirs after my death everything mentioned in this releasewith the most perfect and wisest (means) which our Sages (may their) m(emory be) f(or a blessing) have fixed in writing releases, along with nullifying all secret dispositions and conditions, as (this document) is not like promises and not like formularies but rather (bears) the weight and force of all legal documents[of those attentive to and] careful in the court. We performed a qinyan with M(r.) Joseph b. Samuel (who) r(ests in) E(den) and his honor, his holiness, (our) t(eacher) and m(aster) Manasseh the Judgeb. m(aster) Phineas, (who) r(ests in) E(den), concerning everything written and explained above, with an item suitable for doing so. Proper and enduring.We wrote and signed on Wednesday, the twenty-first day of the month of Sivan, in the four thousandeight hundred and forty-fifth year since the creation, in the city of Alexandria, situated on the shore of the Great Sea.“a third of it” (is) written on an erasure. Proper and enduring.     Mawhūb the Ḥazzan b. Aaron the Ḥazzan (who) r(ests in) E(den)Ezra b. Aaron m(ay his) s(oul find rest)     Mevaser b. … Shela the Mumḥ[e] (who) r(ests in) E(den)Amram b. ma(ster) Mevaser (who) r(ests in) E(den)