recto

This is what I testify, \\I//, Maḍmūn b. Sālim: Abraham b. Yishū wrote
the letters a few days before \\he settled the account// with the nākhudā Bashīr; and we,
namely I, Maḍmūn b. Sālim and Sheikh Abraham b. Yishū, handed them over to Sheikh
Abū ʿAlī the Egyptian b. Ṭayyib after one or several days. Now,
when there remained only one night before the sailing, we all made the account with12 the nākhudā
Bashīr in one place. There were listed for Sheikh Joseph b. Abraham
and Sheikh Khalaf b. Isaac in the boat ‘Gazelle,’ 5 ½ bahārs of 
ginger, worth 22 mithqāls. And the nākhudā Bashīr
took the freight from the ginger, for he insisted
on taking for it gold \\as his freight// {alt. tr.: because he refused to take gold for its freight}. There remained to their credit 11 mithqāls,
constituting one-third of their assets. In the shaffāra, there was registered for them one bahār
less two qīrāṭs pepper, free of freight. Nothing was salvaged for Sheikh
Abraham b. Yishū, of eleven bahārs of ginger in the shaffāra,
except for two bahārs, no more. There remained, however, the merchandise, both ginger and pepper,
which had been in the ship. {lit., ‘The remainder of the merchandise...was in the ship.’} In the shaffāra, there were salvaged only
three bahārs of pepper belonging exclusively to Abraham b. Yishū and one bahārs less
two qīrāṭs for Sheikh Joseph b. Abraham and Sheikh Khalaf b. Isaac.
I {alt. tr.: we} verified this from the shatmī of the ship, which was kept by
Sheikh Makkī b. Abu ʾl-Hawl, as the memos in the
ship had been lost, and those that had been in the shaffāra also were lost.
No ginger belonging to Sheikh Joseph or Sheikh Khalaf had been carried in the shaffāra,
none whatsoever. This is what I testify, I, Maḍmūn b. Sālim.

verso

Abraham b. Ishū had eleven
bahārs of ginger, from which its freight was to be deducted Of these,
there were salvaged in the shaffāra two bahārs, free of freight.
The rest was in the ship ‘Gazelle.’ Written by Abraham
b. Fayyūmī, who is sincere
in affection for you.
