recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
(This is) my letter to my honourable master, my friend and brother, ʿAlī, may God prolong his life and cause his exaltedness,
his splendour and his power to endure, and crush his enviers and enemies. I ask God, the Exalted One, to make close
a most joyful meeting with him through His graciousness and kindness. He is able to carry out what He wishes, and
I could describe in detail all the desolation I feel in your absence. May God, the Exalted, bring about
everything in his goodness, graciousness and kindness. On another matter, I have sent to you by the conveyer of
this letter a raṭl of blue wool to the caravanserai of Fatḥ the dyer, and coarse cloth.
Do not lower the price of this for me. I sent letters concerning these items with everybody who was travelling to you. If you would (kindly) determine to send something, then please send it,
and inform my son Maḥmūd that I have sent to him a letter informing him about the veils that will reach him andthat
arrangements have been made for him to be witness of documents. It gives me pleasure to describe to you thegoodness that was done to him by
the elder called ʾAbū ʿAbd Allāh ibn Rāʾiq, the paper-merchant. Praise be to God for that. Warmest greetings toyou
and everybody in the house. Let me see that.

recto, margin

Convey to my dear brother, the son of my mother, greetings, and to everybody with him. Tell the elder ʾAbūʾIsḥāq
that I have sent to him a letter, in which are enclosed two deeds against the Banū Farwa. Inform him that his son,ʾAbū Liṭāfa, is in the best of health—praise be to God for that.
All the folk are in the best of health.

verso

Greetings to my son, the elder Jalīl al-Dawla ʾAbū Nuʿm. Inform him
that everybody in the home of the son of his son is in the best of health. Greetings to my son Maḥmūd.
Praise be to God alone and bless our lord Muḥammad, the prophet, and may He save (him).
Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!
A letter has arrived from Maḥmūd and he
thanks the elder Jalīl al-Dawla ʾAbū Nuʿm and
as for the good that he does to him, may God the Exalted grant him good on my behalf
and on your behalf, with his thanks. Praise be to God, the Mighty and Glorious

verso, note

Sitt sends you warmest greetings.
Zakiyya sends you warmest greetings.
Everybody in the house sends you warmest greetings.

verso, address
Right Column

May this letter reach my brother ʾAbū al-Ḥasan ʿAlī,
son of the elder, the preacher, ʾAbū al-Ṭāhir ʿUbayd Allāhibn ʾAbī Turʿa.

Left Column

From his brother, may he be made his ransom,
Muḥammad ibn ʿUbayd Allāh ibn al-Ḥasan ibn ʿAlī.
