Recto

The slave kisses the ground before the glorious presence of our lord,
may he be exalted, magnified and live forever, and informs (him) that he (the petitioner) had submitted
before the glorious presence, may he be exalted, a petition containing
some explanation of his situation. Some of the students of our lord (the Nagid) came out (from the capital) and mentioned
to (your) servant on behalf of our master that he (the addressee) would not be ready to finish
the matter until after the holiday. He (the addressee) had previously generously promised
to execute the matter as it was known to him. The servant is
in a desperate situation in all his affairs. He (the petitioner) asks
of his (the addressee's) munificence not to neglect him, but to protect him in his weak state
and isolation. The knife has reached
the bone. His greatest adversity is in the matter of this creditor
and the fact that he is from among the extreme people (aṭrāf al-nās). He is justified, whereas I am
unjust toward him and myself, and I do not blame him; I have fallen in with him
_because of my many sins_ (Heb.). The purpose of this (petition) is that when
the master (the addressee) meets with the illustrious head (of the Jews), our master and teacher Avraham, the great rabbi, may his glory be exalted
and his honor increase, my master should inform him what he knows
to be the truth of your servant’s situation and ask him to procure
sixty dirhams from anywhere possible and send for
the creditor and ask him to divide the amount into (installments of) ten
dirhams per month. For this is what he requested when he learned of
the situation (in which I find myself). He is well aware of my extreme predicament, since the legal document in his hand
divides it into twenty dirhams per month. Let it be promised
that the sixty dirhams be paid in six monthly installments. If
that is done, it will be help from God _by the merit_ (Heb.)
of our lord. The matter is easy. The matter can be put off until the end of
Passover, God willing, with the help of our lord and _by the merit_
of his father, may the memory of the righteous be a blessing. The servant has informed (you) of this, after having kissed
his (the addressee's) feet. May the welfare of his excellency, our saintly lord,
increase forever and never diminish. Forever, sela amen.

Verso

Concerning the matter of Reuben, who has a bill of debt […]
and lacks the means of paying it, and does not have the means to support either
himself or his family, to the extent that, if he were able, he would swear
to his fellow litigant with a _solemn oath_ (Heb.) that he has nothing and is without
means, and that some of the fodder and furnishings are not designated to him
but to others, and that his opposing party is oppressing him and summons him
under gentile law. If he acknowledges (the debt before a notary), perhaps (the creditor) will make him suffer, 
have him arrested and not abide by the ruling according to Jewish sharīʿa.
If he denies it, the qāḍī may require him to swear _an oath_ (Heb.),
and he would be afraid of (divine) _punishment_ (Heb.). Instruct us: if the violating litigant
transgresses and summons him to a gentile court, is he allowed
to swear that he does not owe him anything according to this ruling
and be exonerated? Is the debt binding given that he (the creditor) was 
aware of the debtor's situation and knew the truth of
his destitution — may he send after the violating litigant and tell him, 
“if you summon him under gentile law, you will no longer have any claim
on him and you will be obligated by Jewish law to do such and such”? May our lord instruct us and may he be granted a double reward
from heaven.
