Recto
Your s[la]ve kisses t[h]e ground [be]fore the excellent [seat of our lord], may it be uplifted and increase and may you live forever, and informs you that I had presented before your excellent seat, may it be uplifted, a petition containing a partial explanation of my situation. One of the students of our lord came forth (from the capital, apparently) and told your servant (i.e., the writer) on behalf of our master that you would not be ready to execute the matter under after the holiday. You had earlier generously promised to execute the matter as it was known to you. Your servant is in a desperate situation in all his affairs and I ask you in your munificence not to neglect me but to pay full attention to my weak state (meaning, poverty) and desolation. The knife has reached the bone. My greatest adversity is in the matter of this creditor and the fact that he is one of the better people, so that he is justified and I am the one who wrongs him and myself. I do not blame him, for I have fallen in with him because of my many sins. The purpose of this (petition) is that when my master meets with the illustrious head, our master and teacher R. Abraham the great Rav, may his glory be exalted and his honor increased, you, my master, should tell him what you know to be the truth of your servant’s situation and ask him to procure 60 dirhems in any way possible and send for the creditor and ask him to divide the sum into installments of 10 dirhems per month. That is what he requested, since he knows (my) situation. He is well aware of my extreme predicament. The writ in his hand divides it into 20 dirhems per month. Let it be promised to him that the 60 dirhams be paid in six monthly installments. If that is done, it will be help from God by the merit of our lord. The matter is easy. The matter can be paid off by the end of Passover, God willing, with the help of our lord and by the merit of his father, (may) the m(emory of) the r(ighteous be) b(lessed). Your servant has informed you of this after having kissed your feet. May the welfare of his excellence our holy lord, increase forever and never diminish. Forever, sela amen.
 
Verso
Concerning Reuben against whom there is a bi[ill of debt…,] and he lacks the means to pay and does not have that with which to support himself or his family to the extent that, were he able, he would swear to his fellow litigant with a solemn oath that he has nothing and is without means. And some of the food and furnishings are not designated for him but for others. And his opposing party is oppressing him and summons him to a gentile (i.e., Muslim) court. If he admits it, he (the creditor) may become violent and have him arrested. And he does not heed the ruling of Jewish law. If he denies it, the qāḍī may require of him an oath, and he is afraid of the (heavenly) punishment. May you instruct us: if the violating opposing party transgresses and summons him to a gentile court, is he allowed to swear that he does not owe him anything in this case and be virtuous or not? And being well aware of the situation of the debtor and knowing the truth of his destitution, may the judge send after the violent opposing party and tell him, “if you summon him to a gentile court, you will no longer have any claim on him and you will be obligated such and such by Jewish law”? May our lord instruct us and may he be granted a double reward by heaven.
 