Verso
Concerning Reuben against whom there is a bill of debt [...], and he lacks the means to pay and does not have that with which to support himself or his family, to the extent that, were he able, he would swear to his fellow litigant with a solemn oath that he has nothing and is without means. And some of the food and furnishings are not designated for him but for others. And his opposing party is oppressing him and summons him to a gentile court. If he admits it, he (the creditor) may become violent and have him arrested. And he does not heed the ruling of Jewish law. If he denies it, the qāḍī may require of him an oath, and he is afraid of the (heavenly) punishment. May he instruct us: if the violating opposing party transgresses and summons him to a gentile court, is he allowed to swear that he does not owe him anything in this case and be virtuous or not? And, being well aware of the state of the debtor and knowing the truth of his destituteness, may the judge send after the violent opposing party and tell him, "if you summon him to a gentile court, you will no longer have any claim on him and you will be obligated such and such by Jewish law"? May our lord instruct us and may he be granted a double reward by heaven. 
 
Recto
His servant kisses the ground before the excellent seat of our lord, may it be elevated and increased, and may he live forever. He informs him that he had presented to his excellent seat (court), may it be elevated, a note containing some details about his state. Then one of our lord's disciples came out and mentioned to his servant in the name of our master that it will not be possible for him to take care of the matter until after the holiday. But he already gave his generous (or: eminent) promise to take care of that with which he is familiar. His servant is at the point of ruin in all of his affairs. He asks of his grace not to neglect him and to give complete attention to his weakness and his estrangement. For the knife has already reached the bone. And his greatest calamity is the business of this creditor and the fact that he is of the upper class, so that he is justified and I am the one who wrongs him and myself. And I do not blame him, for it is because of my many sins that I have fallen in with him. The objective of this (petition) is that when our lord meets the venerable head, our master and teacher Abraham the great rabbi, may his majesty be elevated and his honour increased, he should inform him of what he knows to be true about his servant's affairs and request him to secure sixty dirhems any way possible and to send for the creditor to ask him to agree that the sum be paid in instalments of ten dirhems per month. For he (the creditor) sought this, since he knows the situation and is well aware of the difficulty I am in. For the bill that he holds is payable in instalments of twenty dirhems per month. And let it be promised to him that the sixty dirhems be paid for a six month instalment. If this is done, it will be support from God, because of the merit of our lord - If the matter is made little of, and the affair is postponed until after Passover - if God wills, this will be with the assistance of our lord and the merit of his father (may the) m(emory of the) p(ious be a) b(lessing). His servant has informed him of this after having kissed his feet. May the peace of our excellency, our holy lord, increase and never decrease. Forever, selah, amen.