Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
I inform the Ikshīl, vizier of the king, master of the horses—
may God prolong his life, cause his strength to endure, and cause his enemy
and opponent to perish—that the bearer of this letter, who is (called) Munʿim,
one of my servants, has set off (to you) carrying two garments of mixed silk and four
pieces of cloth for the master of the horses. When the bearer of this letter reaches
you, release him and send him away quickly, so he can reach me, if God wills,
because I want to send him to the north to carry out some errands for me.
The master (of the horses) does not need in this matter instruction, ratification or
repetition with regard to what should be done. I am aware of the love of the master of the horses
for me and for carrying out my requests to him. Whatever request you may have,
write and inform me of it, so that I can give an order for it to be carried out. I am deputising
for my brother. On another matter, the commander has written that he will arrive and he will give instructions for your sake and for the sake of
14. the carrying out of your requests. He also mentions (the need) to safeguard the subjects and protect the merchants
who are travelling to you from among the merchant community (and mentions) the country of the king
and its guarding and protection. Please give whatever reply you need to the bearer of this letter and send him
quickly to me. Best wishes to you and best wishes to those whom your care encompasses.

Recto, right margin

Praise be to God alone and His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, His prophet, and his family, and peace. Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso

I have sent with the bearer of this letter also two beds of Iraqi workmanship.
Please accept what he has conveyed to you and send on the carrier of them (i.e., the goods) as quickly
as possible, if God wills. As for the merchants, the Master of the Horses does not require
instruction from me regarding their situation. Your reputation is good among the people. Send Munʿim
quickly, because I want to send him to my brother. If I had not known that my requests from you
would be carried out, I would not have sent you a messenger. Moreover, I know how I am loved by you. Greetings.
Praise be to God alone and His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, His prophet, and his family, and His peace.
Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso, address, right column

To the Ikshīl, master of the horses
vizier of the king, Abū al-Khayr

Uruwī, the governor of the land of Marīs


and its districts, may God cause his power to endure


Verso, address, left column


From the chosen commander, Firmament of the Kingdom,


Crown of the Arabs, Lion of the Dynasty


Abū al-Futūḥ, Tanwīr, son of the commander


Treasure of the Dynasty (Kanz al-Dawla), Abū ʾIsḥāq Ibrāhīm son of ʿAlī,


son of Mutawwaj, son of ʾAbū Yazīd, al-Ḥanafī.

