

 Testimony which took place in our presence, we the undersigned: When God, exalted be His name, produced


the causes for separation between (our) master and lo(rd) Sa[a]diah b. (our) master and lo(rd) Abraham r(est in) E(den) and Gawhara


the daughter of (our) master and lo(rd) Saadiah, known as the elder Abu -l-Yumn b. Al-Başal (his) e(nd be) g(ood), and she ransomed herself with her delayed payment,


and the court obligated him (to give) to her a bill of divorce, then she requested that he release her from whatever (claim) he might possibly harass her


with for that (money) which she administered for him in his house as long as she was married to him, and (she requested) also that there should be written for her


an order (of maintenance) against him for her daughter, which she had from him, commensurate with his circumstances. Also he requested from her


that she release him from all that was included in her marriage contract: the advanced gift, the delayed payment, the dowry,


and anything else. Then the two of them agreed to this and mutually released each other. We wrote for each of them


a release from the other. With this, this (our) master and lo(rd) Saadiah b. (our) master and lo(rd) Abraham r(est in) E(den) said to us:


"Testify to me and perform with me a symbolic qinyan (to be binding) as of now. And write and sign (a document) binding me with all the obligatory phrases


and definite terms, and with all the expressions of deeds of conveyance. And deliver it to my divorcée, this Ġawhara


daughter of (our) master and lo(rd) Saadiah, called the elder Abu -l-Yumn (his) e(nd be) g(ood), that it be in her possession for today


and for the future, as a document conveying rights, that I declare in your presence, with the most firm and most strong terms of declaration


with clear will and full capacity, acting freely, not being under compulsion, nor forced, nor coerced, nor


mistaken, nor in error, without having illness at all, nor anything else of all the things which disqualify testimony,


that I shall undertake towards my daughter for her right (to maintenance), as of the date of the month of Av, of the year 1425


of the (era of) [do]cuments, at the end of each month, ten dirhems. I shall persist in continuing this


until she is married, as long as her mother chooses that she stay with her. 


And I shall undertake towards her every year for clothing four caps, two wraps


for the waist, and something to cover her head, namely, two scarves, without any resistance or opposition, without any argument


or pretext at all. Rather I shall pay it from the richest of my possessions. And I release


[my divorc]ée, this Gawhara, from all claims and demands and all attachments


and responsibilities which will occur to me against her, concerning all which took place between me and her, for all


[the time] she [wa]s married to me, and from that which she administered for me in my house, and fro[m] a[l]l


[   ] her work, and whatever might occur against her o[f...]


[    of all] its [diverse categories, a complete, perfect [re]lease [...]


 