Recto


Testimony of what transpired before us, we the witnesses whose signatures are at the bottom of


this document. Thus it was: Musāfir b. ʿAlī, may his end be good, the ḍāmin of [the sale] and dyeing of silk  


in Damietta appeared before us and said to us: testify concerning me and perform a qinyan with me from this moment, using all the formulations of claims,


[knowing that] I am not forced, nor in error, nor beguiled, but [doing this] of sound heart and volition, that I leased 


all that I have a right to with regard to the ḍamān of silk in Ibwān, with the force of the sublime rescript that I have in my hands,  


may God increase its sublimity and loftiness, to his honor, our teacher and rabbi Yosef the Judge, Felicity of the Yeshiva,  


Man of Israel, son of rabbi Avraham, may his resting place be Eden, and to the two brothers our masters and teachers Daniʾel and Ḥalfon, sons of Yiṣhaq


the ḥazan, may his resting place be Eden, for a period of an entire year, twelve consecutive months, starting with the middle of the month of Shevat


4866 from the creation of the world


and ending in the middle of the month of Shevat of the year [4]867 from the creation, for the amount of 24


dīnārs, two dīnārs per month. I will take from them each month's installment under the condition that,


whoever makes a claim against them, I will help them against whosoever causes them harm, with all that is in


my power. The three aforementioned elders appeared before us and said to us: perform a qinyan from us from


from this moment using all the formulations of claims that we leased from this Musāfir son of ʿAlī, may his end be good,


everything that was mentioned above. We will pay him for this two dīnārs per month without refusal or  


resistance. We performed a qinyan with each of them and his fellow with a suitable item, and as a decree


of the Sages of blessed memory. We wrote three copies and gave them [a copy] to serve for each of them


as a right and proof. This was on Monday, which is the eighth day of the month of Shevaṭ 


4866 from the creation of the world 


in the city of Damietta, which is situated on the Great Sea and the Nile river. It is binding. 


Avraham Danafta, may his end be good. Mevorakh b. ʿAmram, may his soul be at rest.

Peraḥya b. Ḥalfon ha-meʿutad, may his end be good.
