Recto


(1-12) Saturday, the 15th Siwan, together with "the Diadem" (of the Scholars) R. Nathan b. R. Samuel, the ḥāvēr, of blessed memory, while there were with me R. Yehūdā ha-Kohen "the Diadem of the Priests and their Stronghold, the Joy of the nesīʾūt”, the son of His Holiness our Master and Leader Jacob ha-Kohen, the judge, may he have a good outcome; the elder Abūʾl-Faraj b. al-Ramlī; the Kohen who is the shōḥēt near Ḥammām al-Dīk; and the Kohen "who separates the fingers", the colleague of the "Head of the Jews" the Nāgīd Abū Manṣūr, "may God preserve him, I entered his (i.e. Nathan b. Samuel's) house, that belongs to Sitt al-Ḥusn the daughter of Saʿāda, his wife, known as Bint al-Ḥadba.She took us as witnesses 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 of her own, as from today and after death. 


 At that time, her mind was sound, she knew what she was saying 


 and talking. She knew that that day was 


(16-19) Saturday. Then the said Kohen "who separates the fingers" and the said elder Abūʾ1-Faraj b. al-Ramlī informed her that she gave and donated to her slave girls, the virgins, Dhahab and Sitt al-Samar 

 
 
 

 after having freed them,t asis from today and after


 death, a quarter of the compound that is in Masāsa


 in partnership with al-Raʾīs Abūʾl-Munajjā Solomon 


 b. R. Ṣedāqā of blessed memory; that she donated to the qōdesh 


 half the entire compound in which she has her apartment; 


 that the slave girl will live all 


 their life in the part of the qōdesh in the room


 in which the witnessing took place, provided they 


 remain of Jewish faith. The apartment and the ruin


 opposite the compound, and half the compound will belong to her husband 


 our Leader Nathan, "the Diadem of the Scholars. They said that the two


 above-mentioned kōhanīm had their names written (also) in her ketubbā. She indicated 


 that her muʾakhkhar was 50 dinars. The ketubbā 


 was not by her at that time. She said that 


 
Verso


 they should sell the eighth ot the compound that is behind the Mosque,


(2-3) in partnership with the Sultan, may God support him, and the elder Abūʾl-Aʿlā b. Tamām, of blessed memory, and it should be spent on all that 

 

 she will need: Shrouds, the coffin, cantors, tomb, porters,


 and all her funeral expenses, and if that is not enough for it they should sell


 the tiara that is with her husband, the "Diadem" (of the Scholars), and cover with it 


 the missing part. It has eleven segments. 


 Then her husband the "Diadem" (of the Scholars) said: "Yes, I have it". If there is something left from the sum received for 


 the eighth of the said compound it should be given to the two slave girls 


 mentioned above. Any clothes that are fit


 for women shall be given to the two of them and whatever is not fit for women should be given to her husband,


  the "Diadem” (of the Scholars). It was Saturday, so we did not conclude any deed of his 


 to confirm what she said, but whatever I heard 


 her saying I recorded, so that if she died and anyone asked 


 me for the testimony I should not forget it.


 