Recto

In the name of God the almighty.
I am writing, my lord and master — may God lengthen your existence and preserve your glory, support and wellbeing — 
from my usual place on the 5th day of Elul in good health and prosperity, praise be to God, lord of the universe.
On this very day, the boat of al-Mufaḍḍal al-Ḥayfī arrived from al-Mahdiyya carrying 
Abū Yaḥyā b. al-Sakā al-Mahdawī. He reported that five ships had set sail from al-Mahdiyya, may God bring 
them [safely]. If God wills, the remaining ships will succeed in setting sail from al-Mahdiyya,  may God decree 
the all of their safety. He (Abū Yaḥyā) did not have any letters for you, since others had set sail before him. He reported 
that your col­league is prospering and that my lord Abū Isḥaq Barhūn, his father and Barhūn b. Ismāʿīl 
are travelling in the boat (qārib) of Ibn al-Munajjā. I do not have the letters for you that they are car­rying with them. A letter has arrived for 
my lord Abū Isḥaq Barhūn b. Ṣāliḥ, and I have put it together with the other letters. I will hold everything 
that arrives for you, God willing. I have nothing (further) to write to you about. If there should be any further 
news, I will write to you. Let (the news) be good, if God wills. I send you my best regards.
I, your good friend Barukh, send you my best regards. I have written a letter to my lord Abū l-
Faraj Nissim that is a copy of a letter that arrived for him. I would like it to be held until it can be sent 
to him. Mention this fact in your letters to me, if God wills, so that I know it has reached you. The news

Recto - right margin

is very encouraging,
praise be to God for 
this. You mentioned the 
cloaks (aksiyya), that 
someone had withheld the bundle (rizma). ...
My sufficiency and trust is God in his omnipotence.

Verso - address


To my lord and master Abū Yaḥyā Nahray b. Nissim, may his resting place be Eden,


may God lengthen his existence and preserve his glory and support.


1. From Mordekhai b. Mūsā, may his resting place be Eden. 
2. To be delivered, God willing, to his usual abode. Enclosed is a letter of Nissim 
3. b. Benaya.