Recto



In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate.  


This is what ʿ Alī ibn [Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad, known as ibn al-Ṣīnī, the  money-changer at the door of] al-Jifār in Fusṭāṭ, bought from Ḥusayn ibn Shabāb the Jew. He bought from him, with one striking of hands and one contract,  


the whole of the quarter, six shares from twenty-four [shares ] from all of the renovated small house, concerning which this seller declared that this portion of it belonged to him, was in his ownership,  


as a valid asset and a right with legal force in his possession. They (i.e. the six shares) constitute all his right and portion of it. Half, twelve shares from  twenty-four shares, was previously in the ownership of this buyer.  


Overall, through his prior ownership and by right of this sale, he has acquired half and a quarter, eighteen shares from twenty-four shares. It is the small house  with a square door, a corridor,  


a second door, a narrow ground floor with an (ornamental) ceiling, a living room and two columns. On the upper floor there is a rail, a staircase and a 'spreading  area' overlooking its door, and also its own water conduit  


[ … ] It is situated in Fusṭāṭ - Miṣr [ … ] communicating with  the street leading from it to Suwayqat al-Muwaffaq [ … ]  


and al-Qalūṣ, the warehouse, the great market and other streets and localities  adjoining one another. Four boundaries surround [enclose and contain this small  house.]  


The southern boundary extends to the ruins that are in the possession of ʿUbayd ibn Wuhayb the builder. The northern boundary extends to [ … ]  


renovated [ … ] belonging to it. The eastern boundary extends to the street separating it from the renovated ruins known nowadays as al-Awāsī .....  


with which its door communicates. The western boundary extends to the house  known as (the house of) the cultivators. (He purchased it) with the boundaries of  everything that was entailed by this sale mentioned in this document,  


its rights, its land, its building, its timbers, whatever is within its boundaries of  whatever quantity, all rights that are known to belong to it and are attributed to it, every right belonging to it .  


within or without is among its rights. Everything that was entailed by this sale mentioned in this document was (purchased) for twelve dīnārs, of standard weight,


gold, minted coin of full weight and good alloy, in a valid purchase, legal, operative, effective, without any condition that would invalidate it or a promise that would make it void.  


This buyer paid from his clear money to this buyer all the aforementioned price and he received that from him and released him, his descendants and his heirs (from it) and from an oath upon it or upon any part of it,  


with a valid quittance, a quittance of receipt in full, it (i.e. the sum) being in  minted coin of full weight, twelve dīnars. This buyer handed over [ ... ]  


this sale mentioned in this document and he received it from him and it came  into his possession [ …]  


he is free to dispose of it as owners dispose of their property, without anyone  obstructing or preventing that for any reason. This took place after they both had  acknowledged that they had inspected [all]  


this small house and had become properly acquainted with it. They undertook the  transaction between them on this basis as stated. Then they separated physically, after the completion of this sale  


and its becoming binding, with mutual satisfaction and the intention to carry it out on the part of both of them. Should any claim be made against this buyer  with respect to anything that was entailed by this sale, mentioned in this document,  


or any part of it, or of its rights, proceeding from any other person, this seller  must hand over all that is incumbent upon him and is obligatory for him  


by way of returning a price, vouching for a value or the handing over of anything whatsoever. (He is responsible) until he delivers all that to this buyer, with a valid warranty, be he alive or dead, as his liability from his clear means, this being  


 a right for him (the buyer). They were both bound by all of this. This buyer accepted from this seller all of that, with a valid acceptance. The acknowledgement by the seller and the buyer of all of it was witnessed  


after it was read to them in the last ten days of Rabīʿ I, in the year five-hundred  and twelve.  


Witness Clauses 

ʿAbd al-Salām ibn ... [ … ] .. testified to  

the acknowledgement by the seller and the buyer of what is in it on  


its date.  


 Ismaʿīl ibn ʿAbd al-Salām ibn al-Musabbiḥ; testified  


to the acknowledgement by the seller and the buyer of what is in it on its date.  


Murshid ibn Yaḥyā ibn al-Sahm testified to the acknowledgement  


 by the seller and the buyer of what is in it in the month of its date.  


Hibatallāh ibn Muslim ibn al-Ḥasan ibn Muslim testified  


to the acknowledgement by the seller and the buyer of what is in it in the month of its date  


and testified to their being in sound health and legally capable of conducting their  affairs, he being acquainted with them.  


Verso



In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. Praise be to God alone and his blessing and peace be upon our lord Muḥammad and his family.  


Abū al-Ḥasan ʿAlī ibn Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad, known as ibn al-Ṣīnī, the  money-changer at al-Jifār  


in Fusṭāṭ, he being the buyer named on the recto, acknowledged in the presence  of the witnesses of this supplementary document [ … ] .  


verso, and called them to testify, he being in sound mind and body and legally  capable of conducting his affairs, [acting willing, not forced,]  


nor coerced, nor constrained, nor being ignorant of what he acknowledged in it, that  


the whole of the quarter, six shares out of  


[twenty-four shares, held in common not separated, of all] the small house that is defined and described on the verso, whose definition on the recto renders it unnecessary [to indicate the same in this supplementary document], has passed  from his possession and moved from his ownership to the ownership of Bū ʿAlī  ibn Faraḥ, the Jewish watchman.  


[ … ] ….. the whole of the half, twelve [shares from] twenty-four shares,  


[ … ] ....... they divided it between them in two halves equally, according  to what  


was testified to in a document of purchase, the date of which corresponds to the  date of this supplementary document, and the witnesses of which were the same,  recording  


 the amount of the price for that, this being twenty-seven dīnārs and a half dīnār,  their receiving this, the delivery,  


satisfaction, separation and warranty against fault in title. In what they sold they no longer had any right, nor any demand on account of ownership,  


purchase, removal, transfer, inheritance, sharing, apportioning, interpretation,  


 conveyance, disposition, dwelling, gift or donation for life, rent, lease, obligation, complication,  


charitable gift, endowment, pre-emption or usufruct. They called witnesses to testify to their (undertaking) of this,  


willingly, after it had been read to them, in the first ten days of Shaʿbān, in the  year five-hundred and twelve.  


Witness Clauses 



Ismaʿīl ibn ʿAbd al-Salām [ibn] al-Musabbiḥ [ … ] testified  


to the acknowledgement by the acknowledger and the man for whom the  acknowledgement was made of what is in it. .  


The acknowledger and the man for whom the acknowledgement was made  testified to what was in it.  

