Recto
In the first ten-day period of the month of Shevaṭ, of the year one thousand five hundred and eighteen years(of the Era) of Documents, in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on the Nile River, thus: Abū al-Fakhr, b. the Elder Abū al-Futūḥ al-Levi al-Shammā‘ (may his) e(nd be) g(ood), and Abū al-Bahā b. the Elder Khalaf the Elder [(who) r(ests in) E(den)] came before us—we, the undersigned—and the two of them said to us, “Know that we have asked God, praised be He, for guidance and we have concluded a partnership (shirka) between ourselves with assets in the amount of one thousand one hundred dirhamsof good silver, Fusṭāṭ coinage. From that (total), one thousand dirhams belonged to the aforementioned Abū al-Fakhr and one hundred dirhams of good silver, Fusṭāṭ coinage, belonged to the aforementioned Abū al-Bahā.An agreement took place between us that the two of us would act as partners in the aforementioned amount, and we would sell and buyand transact in medicinal commodities from Fusṭāṭ to Cairo and from Cairoto Fusṭāṭ for a period of six consecutive months, the first of which being the beginning of the month of Shevaṭof the year one thousand five hundred and eighteen years (of the Era) of documents, corresponding to Jumāda II of the year six hundred and three of the Arabic dating. Whatever the Creator, praised be He, facilitatesfor us in terms of profit during the aforementioned period will be for usin halves, exactly. If, God forbid, a loss or ruin happens at (the hands of) the work[ers it will be] for us in equal halves. Each of us has obligated himself[ … avoidance of] deception, and the supervision of God[…] the aforementioned two in a complete qinyan[with an item suitable for doing so, effective immediately, in accordance with] their [will] without any sort of duress, nullifying[all secret dispositions and conditions concerning everything written and stipulated ab]ove. And that which ha[ppened][before us, we wrote and signed, in order that there would be a title of right and proo]f[…]