Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
The reason for sending this message, may God prolong his life, my honourable lord,
the Ikshīl, Master of the Horses, vizier of the king, may God cause his support, his exaltedness, his ascendance,
his splendour, his loftiness and his elevation to endure,and crush in humility his enviers and his enemies, his slaves
[kiss the ground] before him and report to him that it has not been concealed from him that his slaves
were dependent on the administrative director in his presence without being in financial partnership. They inform him that
the slave whom he bestowed upon his slaves (i.e., the writers of this letter) through the agency of Bazilī was
sick, and that his slaves (i.e., the writers) wanted to return her, but the messenger whom
she accompanied became ill, and that the slave girl and her son, Rāhim, your slave boy, were examined before purchase three
times, and that she and her son have died. As for his slaves (i.e., the writers of this letter), he is best informed about their circumstances,
and that they only demand from him according to what isreported about him with regard to high praise,
kind words and pious prayer, so put us in a position to be grateful to him, as other people are,

Recto, right margin

thankful to be gathered
into his (favour) to praise him. People only seek to obtain something
through asking your favour. But we have lost this.

Verso

If it was not for the news we have heard from the north and the strife of the land, your
slaves (i.e., the writers) would have made sure to present ourselves before you to kiss the ground and to perform their
obligations. But you know that you do not have any slaves (al-riqq) to send to the northern land to receive
news. So, we have sent the bearer of this message, Bazilī. But do with him what is appropriate for your manner (of conducting affairs)
and what you are in a position to do, for your carrier has absconded (lit. "has left on feet of cotton"). Please arrange for
your command to be issued to some of your slaves to etract forcibly from him what is appropriate,
God willing. Your slaves expect your kindness and munificence, as they have unceasingly enjoyed
your kindness, if God, the Mighty and Glorious, wills.
Praise be to God alone and His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, His prophet, and his family, and may He save (them).

Verso, right margin

Your carrier has arrived, grateful for your kindness and the good
that you have done. We also are grateful to you for this and would like to help you with regard to it, if God wills.

Address

[ʾAbū] al-Khayr [the governor of the land]
of Marīs and its districts [                        ]
