verso

(Iftitāḥ: protokoll) In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate. 
 To our mistress, the noble lady, may God make her dominion eternal, secure her high rank, perpetuate her loftiness 
and crush her enemies. In (return for) the bestowal of a benefaction and the rendering of a benefit 
the beneficence of God, transcendence be to Him – may her thanks be disseminated for her and her reward stored up for her. 
(Matn or baʾdiyya: expositio) Included in what is administered in her dīwān – may it continue to be filled with the perpetuity of her reign – is a communal mosque 
with pious foundations from which twenty dīnārs are distributed annually to the person who preaches and upholds the lofty daʿwa. 
Their remainder (i.e. of the income from the foundations) is distributed for the repair of the mosque and the salary of its superintendent and its mu’adhdhin. And her slave 
 has a deputy charged with the office of preaching it (i.e. the daʿwa), known as Mūsā ibn Azhar. Recently he presented himself 
and complained about the delay of the income for the office of preacher and about the strong desire of the tenants to defer it 
and dissolve this foundation. And he mentioned that the debt owed by those living there until the end of Rajab in the year 415 is 
about ten dīnārs. (Qiṣṣa or ruqʿa: petitio) Her slave asks for a benefaction in the form of a decree (manshūr) from her Presence, 
may she be preserved, to the governor of the district and the administrator of its jurisdiction, strengthening the hand of the aforementioned (preacher) 
in extracting (income) from these foundations according to what came before and what will resume, strengthening his affair, assisting him, 
aiding him, and being solicitous towards him in everything that occurs regarding the repairs of the congregational mosque, 
protecting its property and defending it, or in any occurrence of injury to this foundation, so that prayers for her may be abundant 
during these days of (her) illustriousness. (Ḥukm or marsūm: dispositio) The exalted resolution in this matter belongs to her, if God wills.
(Khawātim: eschatokoll, including ḥamdala and taṣliya) Praise be to God and His prayers be upon Muḥammad the prophet and his pure family, and the sons of the Prophet’s descendants, the rightly guided imāms, and save them.
