Recto
I am writing to you, eminent elder and leader of the profession—
may God prolong your life, make your welfare and happiness per-manent, and increase his b[enefactions] to you and for you—on
Marheshvan 9th.6 I am well and in good health, thank God.
Your letters have arrived, my lord—may God support you—and
I was happy to learn that you were well. I praised God for this and
asked him to make this permanent in his grace.
Likewise, my lord, [the letters] of my two brothers—may God
keep them—have arrived reporting how kind you have been to them
and how much care you have given to their affairs. [They] thanked
God7 for this, my lord, in the presence of all those who know you8
and those who do not know you.
And I ask God to multiply people like you in the nation,9 for
you are its ornament. By my father—(may he) r(est in) p(eace),
although I am now back with my family, I am extremely unhappy10
to be separated from you. For being with you makes the soul strong
with God. I ask God to make your present state permanent, and to
keep you alive until you see your boys as my lord, the elder,11 (may
he) r(est in) p(eace), has seen you, namely that they will presently
become even more successful than you.12
B. SHIPMENT FOR THE TOP MERCHANT IN THE CITY
Your shipment for the elder, my lord Abu Zikri13—may God support
him—has arrived, my lord. These are unique, exquisite pieces,
each having feathering14 on its . . . ,15 incomparable. The festive costume18 is even finer. It has been said that he was [offered] 60
dinars in cash for it. But he refused to sell it, for he wished to wear
it himself. The lead-gray robe is better than everything. I have forwarded
your letters to him.17
The servant, my lord, did not have this much inconvenience.18
The man19 seeks your friendship, [. . .] and (marital) connection
with you and wishes to derive profit from your honored position and
your advice for his undertakings. Had he a son fit to serve you as
an apprentice, he would have been honored by this.
His letters will be sent to you in the pilgrims' caravan.20
C. THE WRITER'S OWN SHIPMENT AND ORDERS
The cloaks21 sent by you have arrived, and I wish to thank you
for your kindness and exertion in this matter. You noted also that
the rest of the order had been carried out. All you have sent, my
lord, is fine, but I wish to ask you to buy everything all over again,
for the three robes striped with curved lines,22 as well as the white
robe which I wanted to have for me as a mantle, were taken from
me by a man who imposed on me. Present circumstances make such things necessary; I cannot go into detail about this. May God save
us from what we fear. All I could say was that those garments were
for sale.23
I would like the robe to be deep red, as red as possible, and the
white and yellow also to be of excellent color. I did not like the color
of the yellow which arrived. Also, the white robe which is to serve
as mantle should be of the same quality. The best robes manufactured
are the old ones. It should be cut in two pieces.24 Its price
should be 2(5 dinars], or as you deem proper; 1 dinar more on a
robe having your approval is preferable to one not so good.
The Sigflaton]25 robe is of extreme beauty, but it is not the color
which they ordered. For this is white and blue, but instead I w[ished
to have] one of the blue onion color,26 an open color, according to
your taste. I wish to have the very best, as chosen by you.
I wish also to have two lead-gray robes with borders "filling your
eyes," each worth about 25 dinars, or a little more, provided they are
first class. Act according to your own judgment. I know that you,
may God support you, are eager to save a dirhem for me more than
I do, and you have also the capacity to do so.
Also (buy me) a white razl robe.27
The festive costume which I have ordered before, should be like
the one you sent to [my lord] Abu Zikri Judah—may God support
him.28 If you cannot obtain one like that, then it should be red,
striped with curved lines, like the robe which (my lord) Abi Ibrahim 'Ayyash29 had had made for himself and I do not care if
it costs ι or 2 dinars more.
The package forwarded by my lord Abi 'I-Hasan (?) 'All, the
son of the sister of the elder 'Allal,30 has arrived. But the 'attabi31
does not have such good going here. All that was obtained for the
package of 'attabi was 20 dinars.
(There follow about twenty partly effaced words).
D. URGENT APPEAL FOR THE WRITER'S BROTHERS
I have another wish, my lord. Should a caravan set out in which
trustworthy Muslims, who have given you sureties, will travel, let
the merchandise of my brothers be sent with them as if it were yours.
They would profit from this in many respects.32
The balance for the garments ordered will be sent to you with the
pilgrims' caravan in a purse of gold dinars.33
My lord, I do not need to entreat you to take care of my brothers—
may God keep them—their soul lives only34 . . . because they are
with you. In a place where you are they are no strangers. May God
protect me through you.35
(There follows a short, only pardy preserved passage dealing with
a lawsuit concerning a flask worth 22 dinars, probably containing
musk). A letter from you, my lord, with a report on your state and welfare
and any order you may have will give me pleasure and will be sure
of my recognition and thanks. Best regards to your dear selves and
to my lords Abu Nasr, Abu Sa'd, and Abu [Mansur]3®—may God
let you see all your hopes fulfilled in them—and to all encompassed
by your care.
(Address. Right side:)
To my elder and illustrious leader Abu Ί-Fadl, Abu Jacob, and
Abu Sahl, Sahl, Joseph, and Sa'id, the sons of Israel, may God prolong
their lives.87
(Left side:)
From Musa and Isaac, the sons of Barhun, (may his) s(oul) r(est
in peace).