Recto
(Lines 1 - 16:)
The following sale was effected with one hand clasp: 6 ⅔ out of 24 common, undivided shares in the old building consisting of the large and the small houses adjoining one another.
The large house has an arched doorway, two corridors, a living room, a sidilla, marble columns, a ceiling, and a fountain. The small house is included in the rights of the larger one. It has a rectangular doorway which is entered from the Mīkhāl Lane. At the utmost end of the corridor behind this second doorway, there is to the right a door leading to an appurtenance for cooking and making fire. (The two houses also have) an upper floor, canalization, a roof and appurtenances. The compound has also a third doorway adjoining the second one, to the right.
 
(Lines 16 - 39:)
This large compound is delimited by four borders: Firstly, to the south, the open space of the lane in which it is situated and which separates it from the house known previously as that of Abu ʾ1-Faraj ʿAbd Allah b. Mansūr, the Scribe, and later as that of someone else, as well as from the house of Ibn Qumayda. The arched doorway which forms the entrance to the whole compound, as well as the bay window opening on this side. Secondly, to the north, a small house formerly known as the property of Mālik [Ibn] Wazīr and then of Ahmad b. Hibat Allah al-Halabī; thirdly, to the east, the house known as belonging to Tayyib b. Bishr, the Christian ; fourthly, to the west, the small house known as belonging to the above mentioned Ahmad b. Hibat Allah.
 
(Lines 39 — verso 8:)
The sale includes also the small building east of this house. It has two stables which form part of the property outside its gate. The building has three doorways : one leading to its upper rooms; one of these doorways is to the right of one who enters the large thoroughfare in which the stables are situated and this is the entrance to one of the two stables. The upper part of this building consists of a mezzanine and upper rooms. This mezzanine is an appurtenance which was added to the first of the upper floors of the large house whose borders have been described before.
The second doorway, namely the one leading to the upper rooms, is entered from a byway in this lane from beneath the saqīfa belonging to the house and is situated to the right of one entering the byway. The saqīfa rests on two walls belonging to this house. From this second doorway one ascends to the upper rooms of the building. The third doorway leads to the second stable and is in one row with the doorway of the upper rooms.
 
Verso
(Verso, lines 9 - 24:)
This building is delimited by four borders : Firstly, to the south, the street, in which it is situated and on which the doorway to the upper rooms and the doorway of one of its two stables open. Secondly, to the north, the small house known as the property of Ibn Hibat Allah al-Halabī Thirdly, to the east, the house known as "the house of the Jewess". Fourthly, to the west, the large compound described above in this document which consists of the (aforement ionedt)wo houses in Fustāt of Egypt, in the Rāya quarter, in the Fortress of the Candles, known as the Fortress of the Rūm.
This sale does not include the roof of the apartment whose door adjoins the door of the kitchen of the newly repaired apartment which belongs to the upper floors of the large house. For that roof and the room below that apartment and the room below the latter room do not belong to this house and are not affected by this sale. However, the apartment registered as separate with its lower and upper sections belongs to the large house and is included in this sale.
The ground rent for the large house and the two smaller buildings (one of which is in the Mīkhāl Lane, adjacent to the secret door of the house, and the other adjoining its doorway) amounts to one-eighth (of a dinar) and three quarters of a qirāt. The payment incumbent upon the buyer is in proportion to his share in the property.
 
(Margin:)
The price 220
 