Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
(This is) my letter to my brother Ḵalīl and my brother ʿUthmān
and ʿUmar, may God prolong their life, and cause their good health
and wellbeing to endure. What I wish to inform you of is that I have arrived
in Aswan and both I and the horse are exhausted.
You know that I departed from you
without (additional) clothes, and I left my clothes
with you. You know that I received
a letter from my family. By God,
please could one of you come downriver quickly
to me. Do not (hesitate to) consider how one would come downriver.
We do not have anything to pay you.
I know that you do not have anything and if
you had anything, you would not regard it as being too generous
to give it to me. By God, the minute you read
this note, one of you please come to me
quickly, taking my clothes
with you—the sleeved garment, the shirt
the helmet and bedding. If they have sold them,
that is fine. If they still remain,
then bring them with you as well as the two water-skins

Verso

and the beads for the children. As for the twisted
leather thong for the women, in which
there is scent, this is in the bag together with
the beads. Bring it (the thong) with you. As for slaves,
there is nothing in Aswan, or only a few. By God,
bring your slave girl with you.
Come only in a boat. Do not bring a horse.
When you come downriver, take my horse
and go back upriver. By God, one of you please come
quickly, quickly, even if you have a thousand
things to do. By God, oh my brother Khalīl,
(who are) a decent man, there is no harm from the gifts that
he has paid to him. Do not let him go anywhere.
Oh my brother Khalīl, where is our father and where
are our companions? Only I and you remain.
By God, do not listen to what anybody says and do not go
from place to place in the citadel (listening to gossip), for
there is no good in it. Greetings to you.
By God, you are three! Behave like
men with each other. Greetings.
That is more worthy of you.

Verso - address

To the brothers Khalīl, ʿUmar
and ʿUthmān, may God give them good health.
From their brother
Jāmiʿ
