T-S 20.145

what
. . . . . . . . . I am explaining a bit of what
our lord, the head of the yeshiva, may God
shelter him in the refuge of His wings—explained in his letter concerning
what his condition has come to and that
he is still suffering and he has no place of refuge other than God
the exalted. I have written to his excellency the nagid,
may his reign last forever, and I asked that when
the government fleet sets out, he ask its captain to
rescue our lord the gaʾon, may he find the protection of heaven,
and to rescue his children from Tripoli, if it is possible
for him to embark. I would like his excellency our teacher
the Third, may you be exalted forever, when you appear
before his excellency our lord the nagid—prince of the people of God,
prince of princes, glory of the house of Israel, standard
of the scholars, light of the West, Mordechai of the age,
head of the ranks of Israel, diadem of virtue,
crown of the dispersion, chariot of Israel and its horsemen,
may our Lord make his days eternal and his years and rule
like the days of heaven over the earth—to discuss
this matter and to remind him about it in
[       ], because he is very preoccupied

T-S AS 153.176

may God unite all [        ]
happiness. I have written to his excellency
our great prince, our cousin, prince of the house
of Israel, glory of the priesthood, may
the protector of the souls of His pious ones protect him, on this matter

T-S AS 153.177

and he has taken him and they traveled with it to . . . .
on the eve of Shabbat Vayoshaʿ, the day when Ibn ʿAmmār departed
for Beirut—may he never return to his house, and may
his place never know him again (Job 7:10)—and set out for
Tiberias to fortify himself there. The city is now in
the hands of his (paternal) cousin Abū l-Manāqib.

T-S 18J5.3

. . . . . . 
in this episode and apart from it. As for the details
of the condition of the raʾīs Abū l-Faḍl, the brother, may his Rock preserve him, and the condition
of his family and all his descendants, I already explained it to his excellency
in a number of letters, so I will refrain from repeating it. The travelers
will inform you its details. May [our] Lord, may he be praised,
help us and help him.      Peace upon his excellency our teacher
the Third, and peace upon the two princes, his offspring, his dear ones,
and peace to all who accompany him and love him. May the greatness
of his two dear ones, shields of the priesthood, our teacher ʿAzaryahu,
pride of the priesthood, \\banner of the yeshiva//, and his brother Maṣliaḥ, may our Rock
preserve them and may our Stronghold support them, who strengthen
the wellbeing of his excellency our teacher the Third and the wellbeing of the two
princes, his dear ones, and all who accompany him and love him, forever.
May salvation come soon.
