


This codex was dedicated by Our Master Rabbi N son of N, may his share be with the seven classes of the righteous


on Paradise, and may his place of rest be underneath the tree of life. This Book of the Law is exclusively dedicated to God,


the God of Israel. It should not be sold or redeemed. Whoever sells it, steals it, or takes it out


in order to sell it or steal it, shall be under the ban of the God of Hosts and under the ban of Joshua


son of Nun imposed on Jericho, and under the ba that the ten brothers of Joseph imposed, and the Divine Presence


was with them. He shall be under a ban in the name of Akatriel, Yah Zah. YHWH Sabaoth.


He shall be under a ban from the mouth of him who sits among the cherubim. He shall be under a ban from the throne of glory.


He shall be under a ban from the living beings and the ofanim. He shall be under a ban from the mouth of Metatron.


He shall be under a ban from the mouth of Yefefiya, the prince of the Torah. He shall be under a ban from the mouth of


Zagnaza’el. He shall be under a ban from the mouth of the seven angels: Gabriel, Michael,


Raphael, Ṣidqi‘el, ‘Ana’el, Uriel, Ḥasdi’el. He shall be under a ban


from the seven firmaments and from the seven lands and from the seventy nations and from Israel


and Judah. May all the oaths written in the Torah, in the Prophets and in the Ketubbim cling to him.


May he be cursed with ninety-eight admonitions. May God refuse to forgive him. May God

 

separate him for ill from all the tribes of Israel, and wipe his name off from under the sky. May his sons


become orphaned, and his wife widowed. May he be lost, subdued, destroyed, and may his name be erased


from the boom of the living. Any one who steals or sells it shall be …


these curses and (others) like these. However, all blessings shall be (on the head of) the respected, honoured, and revered master…


all the blessings written in the Torah, in the Prophets [and in Ketubbim…]


a crown, a diadem, and an ornament, and may they come to the head of…


Amen. Amen.

