a recto


Those who wrote their signatures at the end of this writing declare that we know and witness that all 


the places here involved that are dedicated to the Synagogue of the Palestinians in Fustat (namely) : A compound known as 


Dār al-Barqī, in which there were apartments dedicated by a man from Barqa to the Synagogue of the Palestinians in Fustat 


and a compound known as Dār Maymūn al-Khayyāṭ and later as Dār al-Ḥaffār and rooms in . . . . 


adjacent to the hut (sukkā). All this is dedicated . . . . 


 
b recto


(1-2) . dedicated . . . . paid it for the necessary repairs 

 

 …. on it a plate "dedicated to the Synagogue of the Palestinian Jews" 


. . . the parnāsīm appointed by the Ḥāvēr Ephraim, of blessed memory. Among them, Baqā b. 


 Bishāra . . . . a silver candelabrum and it was fastened in the hēkhāl 


 . . . Joseph b. Neṭīrā the parnas and Abraham 


 al-Zayyāt … the (holy) objects that were with him and it was obtained 


 . . . the rent, and with it the Ḥāvēr


 Ephraim, of blessed memory, and the parnāsīm bought two shops and the compound of b. al-Ṣabbāgh that is adjacent to this synagogue. 


 After several years the parnās b. Neṭīrā and those who were with him at that time (collected) 


 money with which they bought the large compound that is adjacent to the corridor of the synagogue after 


 b. Jārūd had taken the wall that … On it … and also, after several years, 


 b Neṭīrā and the parnāsim and Abraham al-Zayyāt collected money from rent, and bought with it 


 (a compound) that is adjacent to the synagogue (on the side) of the door of the women, that is in the lane b. Khabīṣa and is known as Dār 


 Sumāna. After that, b. Neṭīrā and the Ḥāvēr Ephraim, may they rest in peace, passed away and


 (other) parnāsim came in (their) place, among them Ephraim b. al-ʿAdl, Isaac b. Ṣedāqā al-Shadiq ("big mouth"), and Ḥusayn al-Dhahabī. And there accumulated with them (a sum of rent with which they built a room over the two above-mentioned shops. 


 They also bought from Menaḥem, nicknamed "the bald", five qīraṭs of the compound known as 


 Dār Bishāra, the interior of it. After that the apartments were taken over by the trustees 


 that were appointed under the Rāv Shemaryā, of blessed memory, and they repaired the synagogue. Three years later 


 the synagogues were destroyed. The farrāshīn demolished all their timber and bricks and sold them.


 They sold the timber of the above-mentioned apartments and their bricks. All the apartments remained in ruins 


 until the time when the synagogues were restored, when they were taken over by the Ḥāvēr Ephraim, may God preserve him, and by Solomon b. Khalīl, 


 Solomon b. Ḥakīm, and Yeshua b. (empty space), with a document in which each apartment was specified, 


 of each synagogue respectively. They left on each apartment a plate with its name, as it was before. 


 They supervised the restoration work in the above-mentioned synagogue and repaired some of the apartments until the time when the roof was built 


 over the synagogue. The Ḥāvēr and the community appointed parnāsim, among them Abūʾl-Ḥasan al-Ṭabīb, Solomon 


 b. Hiba, Yaʿīsh ha-Kohen, and Hillēl al-Ṣahrajtī. They supervised the repairs of Dār al-Ḥaffār. Later 


 the cantor b. Shekhanyā supervised the restoration works of the wall adjacent to al-Barqī and to the room 


 inhabited by al-Ḥalabī. Later the apartments were taken over by Jacob the parnās and the


cantor b. Shekhanyā 


 in the year 426. With the revenues from the rent for two years 


 according to the account that they made and which part of the community read in the synagogue, they constructed the large front 


 of Dār al-Sabbāgh. In the years [42]8 and [42]9 they built Dār Quṭayṭ and accommodated al-Jamal in it. 


 In the year [4]30 they built some of the remaining part of Dār al-Ṣabbāgh. In the year [4]30 they surrounded 


 the synagogue with a wall and installed on the synagogue the chords of the vault . Also, after that they built 


 the two low apartments in the upper part of Dār al-Ḥaffār, known as Dār Maymūn b. Khayyāṭ 


 al-Maghribī. And there are in it accounts of each year, in which the revenues and expenditures are stated and summed up. Before 


 the synagogue was closed the account of these years was fastened from Passover until the "Small Fast", and (a ban) was proclaimed 


 several times against whoever had any objection to it and did not appear before the court. It was said also that 


 this was an obligatory duty, and not (simply) some kind of good deed. Those who were authorized to request it, requested


  that we write our signatures and titles at the end and this we accepted ....


 