
41/8  dinars. And also, in the ship of the nākhudāAbu ’l-Ḥasan,
a piece of lead; the weight: two hundred and sixty pounds; the price:
171/3 dinars; the export tax from the Furḍa, 1/3  d.; (Bama)
has one dinar for buying water and cabin equipment. Your total
debt: 653 dinars. Balance in your favor:
32 dinars. {Add: Your debit:} Sent to you with Abu ’l-Khayr,
32 dinars. I have sent to you with Sheikh Abu
’l-Khayr and Bama a gift from me to you: 10 (?) rubāʿiyyas of
sugar and raisins, as well as a dast of white paper. As for the paper, for two years now
it has been impossible to get any (in the market), and I have given you this from (the stock)
I keep for myself.  I have sent you a piece (made) of corals for your son Surūr
and a quarter {add: mikyāl} of seeds. Please be sure to take delivery of all this.
Together with my letter, a letter from Makhlūf ‘The Orphan’was dispatched to you,
which he had sent from ʿAydhāb. I have more than twenty of his
letters, all of them worthless {alt. tr. utterly confused}—he is an old man in his dotage, and has become senile
in his old age {alt. tr.: utterly confused at the end of his life} and doesn’t know what he is doing. As for the documents,
which I had made out in Muslim and Jewish (courts), wherein he releases
you from any claim, demand, responsibility or oath, they are in my
safekeeping and are certified by reliable witnesses.
You mentioned the betel nuts, which you had sent to me with
Sheikh ʿAbd al-Malik last year, and the two boards (of teak wood),  I took delivery of
this and sent you last year in exchange, with Saydān,
sugar, raisins, and other {add: retail} items, but God ordained what He ordained. As for the remaining
boards, Sheikh Joseph and Sheikh Khalaf  took delivery (of them)—they were
owed them from the year (before). As for the drky, none has come this year
at all. And I was not able to get any indigo. Concerning what you mentioned about
Musallam al-Kaʿkī,  he has not sent you a thing this year, nor have I
seen a letter of his. Please accept for yourself and your son the best of greetings from me,
and convey my best regards to the illustrious nākhudā ʿAlī al- Fawfalī.
And peace! Know, my lord, that in the ship of the nākhudā
Rāmisht and in the ship of his two sons and two brothers-in-law {alt. tr.: and in the ship of his son and (the ship) of his son-in-law},  and in the ship of
the nākhudā Abu ’l-Ḥasan b. Abu ’l-Katāʿib, four ships . . .
