Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
I inform the Ikshīl, Master of the Horses, vizier of the king, the governor of the districts of the land of al-Marīs—
may God prolong his life and cause his wellbeing to endure—that I sent two of my sons, called Qāsim
and Abū ʿAbd Allāh to Erkinun in order for them to dwellthere, as your guests and the guests
of the king, may God preserve his life. I did not send them for trade nor for benefit through selling and
buying. Rather, I sent them to be at the disposition of theking and (stay) in his land until
God permits. I shall convey to them cloth for them to send to the king, may God preserve his life, and so that they can
see his crown (i.e., have an audience with him) and become his slaves, like my father the rightly-guided judge—perhaps you have heard of him—
and my grandfather, and my cousin, the judge Abū al-Faḍl. My grandfather travelled to visit the just king
Basil and my father travelled to visit King Mūyis, the father of Mena Kurē (?), as a messenger
from the ruler, may God strengthen his victory, to Soba. It is he who strove to make a peace treaty between
the ruler and the king when the situation deteriorated in the days of King David.
My cousin, the judge ʾAbū al-Faḍl travelled to visit King Mūyis as a messenger of the ruler
to Soba. I myself travelled with my cousin when I was young to Soba to visit King
Mūyis. I was received by him very well. My son, Hibat Allāh, travelled to the just king
Mūyis, while he was in Dongola, and was received very well by him and he bestowed gifts of honour upon him.
My children, my father and my forefathers are known for their (court) service of the previous kings and we have
been treated very well by them. Our property, from which we have a livelihood, is in their country. I would
like to express my wish to the Master of the Horses that there be a long-term acquaintance and friendship between the two of us.
I have sent my sons as harbingers before I reach him and before I enter the country
of the king. If you would do the kindness of sending a letter to the king, may God preserve his life, informing him of everything
I have mentioned and my wish to come to his country, then please do so. Also obtain for me from him
a letter from the king to the Master of the Horses /to you/instructing that he treats me
and my sons well and treats me in the same way as my forefathers, and instruct you
in the letter to provide me with a house in Ibrīm, a house in Adminna and a house
in Erkinun, so that I can build them and I can live in whichever of these houses I wish together with my sons.
Let his (the king’s) signature be on the letter, if God, the Mighty and Glorious, wills.
Praise be to God alone, and His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, His prophet.

Recto, right margin

I have sent a piece of an Iraqi striped garment in lieu of a cash payment. Please forgive me.
May the Master of the Horses, may God cause his power to endure, instruct his deputies in Erkinun concerning my children,
and let them wait for the arrival of my letter, if God wills.

Verso, address, right column

This letter should reach the Ikshīl, Master of the Horses
the vizier of the king, governor of the land of Marīs andits districts,
may God prolong his life and cause his protection andwellbeing to endure.

Verso, address, left column

One who loves him and is grateful to him,
ʿAbd Allāh, son of the rightly-guided judge
ʿAlī ibn al-Zubayr.
