Recto

[the ways of the man, and who] straightens their path and their steps
… The righteous one shall rejoice in the Lord, and seek refuge in him (Ps. 64: 11)
… [For, how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty], corn shall make the young men, and new wine shall make the maids cheerful (Zach. 9: 17).
[I will betroth you to me for ever, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, and in] justice, in mercy and compassion. I will betroth you
[to me in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord] (Hos. 2: 21-22). During the lifetime of the betrothed a lily shall flourish. During the lifetime of the bride, who
… [And during] the lifetime of the Karaites and all Israel, the salvation shall rise, as it is written and [the sun of justice] shall rise for you (Mal. 3: 20) …
… of the week, which is the twelfth day of the month Nisan of the year one thousand three hundred sixty two of the era of the Greeks, in the land of
[Egypt, in the city of Fusṭāṭ which is situated on the river] Nile, on this day took place the betrothal of our Lord and Master, the elder, Shela, the wise and intelligent one, may his Rock protect him, son of the elder cAmram known as al-Qirqisānī
who on that day was in the city of Tyre, with Yamān, the young girl, the virgin, daughter of the elder David, may God make him live, ben Yeshacya, the scholar, who was a champion of the Torah, may he rest in peace, and he testified about himself, in a qinyan,
according to his desire and wish, with full physical and mental faculties, and he is not coerced, not forced, not drunk and not mistaken, that he declared a full declaration, in the presence of trustworthy witnesses. Their testimony is confirmed before our Lord
the great nāsī David, may He agreably lengthen his days, son of our Lord Ṣemaḥ, may his rest be in the God's Garden of Eden, that the aforementioned elder Shela sent to our Lord and Master, dear, esteemed Solomon
son of our Lord and Master, the elder cAdiya, the prince, may God help him, son of the great prince Menashe, the Garden of Eden is his resting place, and Shela, may God make him live, son of the elder cAmram, asked him to be his agent, and established him, and made him equal
with himself to betroth and marry to him Yamān, the young girl, the virgin, daughter of the elder David, who is in Egypt, according to all rules of the betrothal and marriage observed by Israel, and according to the custom of the Jews
the holy ones, and with all the conditions mentioned and established in the deed of attorney that this Shela, the fiancé, sent from Tyre to our Lord and Master, the elder, [the esteemed] Solomon
son of our Lord and Master, the elder, cAdiya, the prince, son of our Lord and Master, the elder, the great prince, Menashe, may he rest in peace. And our Lord and Master Solomon son of the prince cAdiya answered and accepted from him,
and wanted to be for him an agent, according to his request. And the deed of attorney arrived before our Lord, the great nāsī David, may God help him, and he read and understood it, and it was certified by him as correct and valid. And the date
on which the deed of attorney was written was Friday, the twenty third [of Tishri of the year one thousand three hundred sixty two of the era of the Greeks] which is the year four thousand eight hundred eleven.
And these are the names of the witnesses to the deed of attorney who are in Tyre: Yefet […] Solomon ben Abraham and Samuel bar Rabbi Moses, the haver. And our Lord and Master, the esteemed elder, Solomon
son of our Lord and Master, the elder, the prince cAdiya, the agent of this fiancé, the elder, Shela, came […] and called the elders, who sign below, to witness about himself, in a qinyan, according to his will
and wish, that he betrothed the elder Shela son of the elder cAmram [… to Yamān daughter of] David ben Yeshacya, the scholar, may he rest in peace, with the mohar that he stipulated
and allocated for her. [And] the fifty coins of silver, the mohar of her virginity, he shall give to her [at the time of the marriage and he added for Yamān the] young girl [two hundred] and fifty good, full dinars. The advanced part
of them is one hundred dinars. As for the one hundred fifty delayed dinars [good, weighed and full, he will write them] as incumbent upon him in her ketubba. And if, God forbid,
the elder Shela, the fiancé, fails to fulfil this engagement, he shall owe her [half of the advanced marriage payment which is] fifty good, weighed, full dinars,
a true, strong and binding debt. And Aaron ben Samīḥ ha-Kohen and Şedaqa ben Sacadya came [and testified about Yamān,] the young girl, the virgin, fit to fulfil the commandments,
who has full mental faculties, daughter of David ben Yeshacya, the scholar, in a qinyan, according to [her will and desire, that she appointed] the elder Solomon ben Musāfir
to take care of the affairs of her betrothal to our Lord and Master, the elder, Shela son of the elder [cAmram mentioned] above to be his wife, and he–her husband,
and she also accepted and took upon herself all the conditions that they shall stipulate between themselves Solomon ben Musāfir, the agent of Yamān, the young girl,
the virgin, daughter of the elder David, and he called us to witness about himself, in a qinyan, according to his [will and wish that he betrothed] Yamān, the young girl, the virgin, daughter of the elder
[David] to this Shela, the fiancé, son of the elder cAmram, to be his wife [and companion according to the custom of the daughters of Israel, the pure and] the faithful ones.

lines 30 - 36 are illegible
37. … may he rest in peace, witness; Manṣūr ben Mevasser, may he rest in peace,
38. Samuel ben …

 