Recto

I am writing — may God lengthen the existence of my lord the ḥaver, the illustrious member of the yeshiva, may God lengthen
his existence and make eternal his glory, support, happiness, benefaction and protection
and smite your enemies — from Alexandria, with two days left in Tammuz — may God conclude it
for us and for you in the most favorable manner — in a state of good health and wellbeing, but longing
for you, may God in his kindness and blessing bring near the time of our meeting in the best of cir­cumstances.
I inform my lord that I previously sent to you some letters in which I informed you of what I did
with respect to the yarn (ghazl). I have had it made for you into a large turban, 25 cubits long, and into a bolt of cloth (shuqqa) 20
cubits long. I received 31 dirhams from ʿAwwāḍ, which I paid to the artisan for
the bolt of cloth and the large turban. I also paid 4 dirhams for the unravelling of the yarn. After he had completed the work,
I succeeded in getting the craftsmen to reduce the price by 3 dirhams.  I will use this sum to pay the bleacher (muṣaffī). After
this had transpired, ʿAṭiya b. Shammāʿ arrived carrying with him a blue wrapping cloth (khirqa) that contained cotton,
yarn and combed flax (kattān manfūsh). I weighed the combed flax and it came to 11 ʿuqiyya. I
will have this spun for you at the cost of one-half an ʿuqiyya (i.e., I will pay the spinner 1/2 ʿuqiyya for his labor, instead of paying him in cash). I have already informed you that there still remains
one and one-quarter raṭl miṣrī of your yarn that was not used by the artisan. I will collect all (the remaining yarn) for you and prepare it (for the weaving)
of another bolt of cloth. I have also informed you of the circumstances concerning the cloak (milḥafa). The flax from which it was woven
was of dif­ferent qualities, and consequently its "whitening" (tabyīḍ) was not uniform and it has a brown coloring. If you wish
to have it bleached and fulled, please inform me accordingly in your next letter; otherwise, I can send it to you as it is.

Recto - right margin

I had reached an agreement with
the (artisan) who wove (the cloak that he would do this for)
22 qirat and I subsequently
received an additional discount of two qīrāṭs.
I then paid him, in addition
to the two qīrāṭs, two
and a half dirhams
and paid half a dirham
for the unravelling of the yarn
and for a dirham-weight of silk. 
His (total) fee came to
37 and a half dirhams.
There remain to you
thirty dirham-weights of the cotton
as they are,
untouched.
I asked
you, my lord,

Recto - top margin

about the delivery of the
Ṭabarī cloak and requested
that you get its price
from
Abū Yūsuf.
Whether, my lord, you have col­lected 
anything from it
or not,
let me know
in your letter.
I send you
my best
regards.

Verso 

Greeting to R. Nissim, may God grant him life; and to my lord Abū Yūsuf al-Ṭarabulusī and his brother.
I, Mardūk b. Mūsā, send special greetings to you and to R. Nissim. God is my sufficiency.

Verso - address

To my lord the ḥaver R. Nahray b. Nissim,
may God prolong his life and make his glory and benefaction eternal.
From the one who is grateful for his kindness, Marduk b. Musa.
