Recto
. . . (R. Isaiah ha-Levi was appointed to be in charge of the qōdesh since he excelled in) 


piety and trustworthiness in his administration of Jewish matters. 


I have with me the deposition of the "permanent judges" of that time about it, 


signed by our Master Ḥiyyā and our Master Jacob and those who accompanied them. And Heaven forbid that 


Your Honor overlook my matter, about which complain; rather may Your Honor consider 


my matter with that piety and wisdom with which the Creator blessed you, 


so that if justice is on my side you may do it to me thus as it is incumbent upon a pious man like you; 


(7-8) but, if justice is not on my side, let me know in what way the deeds of that administrator, namely of our Master Isaiah, may God preserve him, were voided. Also, if you voided 

 

(9-11) what he enacted concerning me, so let all leases and deeds of rent of ruined lots of the qōdesh to other people who repaired them, having to pay the ḥikr every year and (being allowed to live (in them) until (the costs of) their repairs have been covered, also be voided. So please

 
 

(12-13) take into consideration (this) letter of mine and what I complain about before you, and act as decided by the Law. And do not delay it, please, since if 

 

you delay it, it would be as if you contributed to the loss of what is due me. 


I also inform Your Honor that I sent (you letters) and asked Your Honor some 


questions about certain matters. May Your Honor answer me on it according to Your wisdom. I also requested Your Honor


to compile something for us concerning astronomy to guide us in some of it which 


we find ni (the sayings of) our Masters in the Gemārā and that which we find in the Responsa of the Geʾōnīm. 


(19-20). .. . which Your Honor compiled concerning the sum of 613 commandments. 

 

 
Recto, margin


. .the plucking, which is one of the five rules of slaughtering. Of plucking off one of the signs that .... 


. . . it should be cut, and if we see that it was plucked off from a place which is known. It is the plucking to which one refers…


 
Verso


(1-3) And please, if the Creator should enable that Gentleman to get back my loss, 

 
 

so spend some of it to pay a scribe and (for) paper to write the whole of 


Your Honor's noble composition on the whole Mishnā, which I requested to be in the first place.


Thereafter one should complete it, with Heaven's help, the pay being (taken) from 


my money. But if nothing of my loss is refunded, let Your Honor copy what I mentioned and let 


the wages be paid from (the sum) about which you asked me. Greetings. And if there remains anything from my


money after what is owed to the scribe is paid, please send it to me ....


 