Verso, right column 


His slave Muslim ibn 'Abd al-Jabbār.


In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. Registered. 


My lord the glorious judge - may God prolong his life


and make eternal his power, his exaltedness, his loftiness, his sublimity, his eminence


and his majesty, and crush those who envy him and his enemies - has been sent a reply by the two witnesses,


reporting to him in order that the truth of what they state in their reply beratified by


a rescript of the exalted, glorious,


trustworthy, majestic, resplendent, beautiful, honourable,


crowned presence of the judge, support of the commander of the faithful, may God establish his days and give power


to his judgments. An ‘alāma was attached to their document, according to the familiar


practice in such matters. The contents included mention of the reply given to him by the


jurisconsults authorized to make legal decisions concerning the endowment that I granted


to my deceased wife Kulla, daughter of Fahd, namely the portion of the said shops mentioned in the document headed by


my name, and her acceptance of that from me.


This endowment did not leave my possession and remained at my free disposal and in


my possession during her lifetime and this woman, to whom the endowment was made,


did not ratify it nor take possession of it, nor did she appoint a representative


as her agent. The accredited witnesses in the town of al-Fayyūm


recognize the validity of what I have stated and testify to its truth. (It is my) request to him to


issue a rescript for them, confirming that they recognize this, together with his reply


to the substance of it. To him belongs his auspicious and rightly-guided resolution, if God, the exalted, wills.


Praise be to God alone and his blessings be upon our lord Muhammad, theprophet, and save him.


Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is he!


Verso, left column 


Praise be to God, in a way that satisfies him.


Let the group of accredited witnesses


in the town of al-Fayyūm, may God cause their strength to endure, takecognizance


of this scroll, both inside and out,


and of the rescript issued by the exalted,


glorious, trustworthy, majestic,


resplendent, beautiful, honourable, crowned presence of the judge, support


of the commander of the faithful, may God establish his days and give power


to his judgments to me. (This is) pursuant to the reply


given to him by the jurisconsults, who are authorized to make legal decisions, may God cause


their strength to endure, and by those of them who knew anything


concerning what was related by the applicant !


in his formal request for my rescript,


[ ] this [ ] the portion


 