

In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. Praise be to God alone.  


Ṣadaqa ibn Ṭayyib al-Ramlī, the maker of waistcloths, who is a young man of average height, light brown (in complexion), with a protruding forehead,  


with a thin layer of hair joining the eyebrows, with dark brown (eyes), with a stunted, hooked nose, with a slight beard, while calling (witnesses) to testify, being of sound mind and body, legally capable of conducting his affairs, acting voluntarily, acknowledged  


that he owed, was in debt and obligation for, to Ḥasan ibn Isḥāq al-Ramlī, the Jewish maker of waistcloths,  


one hundred and fifty silver dirhams, of excellent quality and standard weight,  from among the dirhams that are currency  


in Fusṭāṭ- Miṣr, an established debt owed by him to him and a binding right with legal force, which he owes him in its entirety.  


He may take it from him whenever he wishes. At whatever time he wishes or  has contracted with him (to take it back), day or night, he (the debtor) will not  put off payment to him  


nor argue against him regarding it with an argument, nor with a pretext, nor  with destitution, nor with bankruptcy, nor with a need, nor with the extinction of his obligation, nor that on the recto  


or the verso of this acknowledgement there is a rescission of (the debt). There is no admission of the payment of this debt in instalments, nor is there any postponement of it, nor release  


from it or from any part of it. He will not attach an oath to it or to any part of it  


 in any way whatsoever. This is by virtue of a binding right with legal force, which he has recognized and which the acknowledgement has made binding upon  him. He acknowledged this after  


 its acknowledgement had become incumbent upon him. This Ṣadaqa also  acknowledged that he was solvent to the amount of the aforementioned debt,  


that is one hundred and fifty silver dirhams of good alloy, of the aforementioned  (type) of dirhams,  


and ...... on this day Ḥasan ibn Isḥāq the Jew accepted from him 


this acknowledgement and declaration of solvency with a valid acceptance. Their  acknowledgement of what is contained herein was witnessed after it had been read  


to them and they had acknowledged that they had understood it word for word.  This was in Dhū al-Qaʿda of the year four-hundred and forty-nine.  


 
Witness Clauses 


Al-Ḥasan ibn ʿAlī ibn al-Ḥasan al-Anṣārī testified  


to the acknowledgement by. the acknowledger and the one to whom the  acknowledgement was made of what is contained herein. Valid.  


Al-Ḥasan ibn Muḥammad ibn ʿUbaydallāh testified to the acknowledgement by the acknowledger and the one to whom the acknowledgement was made of what  is contained herein.


ʿAbdallāh ibn ʿAlī ibn Muḥammad testified to the acknowledgement by the acknowledger and the one to whom the acknowledgement was made of what is contained herein.  

