Recto

I(n your name)
I previously sent letters to my lord, the most glorious
elder — may God prolong his existence in health and make eternal
his support, happiness, wellbeing, benefaction,
high rank, strength and splendor and vanquish with humiliation
and ignominy those who envy him and his enemies, and never deprive him
of the good of success — in which I explained to you all
the matters and circumstances. I won't expand on it except to say
that I long for you, may God bring our reunion near 
in the most preferable circumstances and the greatest expectations in his benefaction
and abundance of kindness, since He is responsible for this and has the power to bring it about, 
if God wills in his mercy. I also informed you 
in them of all the prices of the goods that
I need to send back to you. But I would like, if 
this is stuitable to you, for frankincense and brazilwood to be sent immediately after
the holiday, if the good brazilwood goes for 120 dinars
per bale and the frankincense for 20 dinars
per qinṭār and 20 raṭls. If you don't have anything
with you and frankincense is available, get a loan from

 
Recto - right margin

the dīwān
and buy some,
as well as a bit of camphor
for 20 dinars per mann. But 
prices are in the hands of God the exalted.
As for the rest, when 
whatever there was that was unloaded
from the boat of the Dībājī,
some of the items came to ʿAydhāb,
and some remained in Suwākin.
They ran out of time 
and Abū l-Karam the wakīl
took possession of the rest.
Each person's name
is on his qisṭ,
and Shemuʾel's name is
on all of them, and also 
on his own qisṭ.

Recto - top

Some news arrived
that pepper, lac and brazilwood
arrived in ʿAydhāb.
The wakīl claimed them,
and they're with him and with the Muslims
who are going up to claim
their qisṭ. Nahrāy
is also going up.
I would like for

Verso

you to claim what belongs to Shemuʾel from the qisṭ. Don't
slack on this. Also, regarding Zikrī
al-Ṭarābulusī, the wakīl wanted legal documents
showing that you entered into an agreement about claiming his (goods). Do it,
 and don't worry about it if all the merchants
know that the dirham in Shemuʾel's hands
belongs to you and you left Aden with it. I don't need
to urge you to help the elder Mufaḍḍal in bringing
this letter of mine to you and executing (the contents of) it with him. Whatever
accoutrements you request for the journey، you have
a right to claim them. Make the choice as well for
anyone whom you know he's taking care of. If you write letters to Aden,
let them know what he's capable of and the family he comes from. I'd' like his letters
to reach me letting me know of the kindness you've shown him.
Send best regards to all our colleagues who have left with the Kārim.
 

Verso, right margin

I send you best regards.
Also Sulaymān, Yiṣḥaq and my children — 
send them best regards.
Send Abū l-Ḥusayn and his two sisters
best regards.
Send the entire family
best regards.
Send anyone over whom you extend your concern
best regards. Send Musallam
and Shemuʾel best
regards. Utmost peace.
Ṭevet 1452 (Sel.)

Verso, address:

His honor my lord the most glorious elder Abū Zikrī
Yaḥyā b. Sulaymān, may his resting place be Eden, b. al-Shāmī, may God decree his wellbeing
(From) the one who is grateful for his benefactions, 
Abū Zikrī Kohen. Peace. 
