Recto (verso as conserved)

A testimony that there appeared before us, we the undersigned witnesses,
the elder Abī l-Riḍā, (his) h(onor), g(reatness and) h(oliness), (our) m(aster and) t(eacher)
Yaʿaqov, the honored elder, the noble and generous, son of (his) h(onor), g(reatness and) h(oliness), (our) m(aster and) t(eacher) Yosef
the elder (may he) r(est in) E(den), and said to us: "I had intended to take over the tax farming (ḍamān) al-Maḥalla al-Kubrā,
which is in the hand of the elder Abī l-Faraj, (our) m(aster) Yeshuʿa, son of R. Avraham, (may he) r(est in) E(den), and of his son
Abī l-Khayr. Then I pondered over the straitened circusmtances of these peope, their liabilities
and indebtedness to the dīwān and thought that if I took that thing (al-bāb)
from them through machinations (siyāsa), force and getting the better of them, they would suffer damage,
both from the side of (their relation with) the dīwān and their loss of income. Thus, considering their welfare
prior to my own and confident that with God's fabvorable decree and help the welfare of
all of us would be served, I make this proposal. Of the debts of
these people, I pledge to pay to the dīwān 80
dinars //in the course of four years//, 20 dinars each year, not more than that. Whatever might be above
that sum I am not obliged to pay. This on condition that the
superintendent (mushrif) and director (ʿāmil) grant me the tax farming at the same estimate and price
imposed on them at present without any rise and that
they also relinguish the lease (ḍamān) and transfer it to the aforementioned elder Abī
l-Riḍā (i.e., me) without rise." The aforementioned declared
that the estimate of the lease (ḍamān) imposed on them amounted to
335 dīnārs. If the superintendent
and director would be prepared to transfer the lease solely with a rise, then
the rise would be included in the sum of 80 dinars mentioned before, and
the elder Abū l-Riḍā would not be obliged to anything more than
80 dinars for both payment of their debt and a possible rise." On these conditions
the symolic purchase was made by us from the aforementioned elder Abū l-Riḍā and also
from the aforementioned elder Abū l-Faraj and his son especially on their obligation
to transfer the lease (ḍamān); we made it completely and strictly, valid as from now,
in the precsribed manner, voiding all secret depositions and stipulations. This happened
during the first ten days of the month of Elul, 1458. Correct, valid and confirmed.
(Signed by) Zakkay b. Moshe, (may he) r(est) i(n) E(den). ʿAmram b. R. Yaʿaqov, (may he) r(est) i(n) E(den).
