Recto


Our [lord], may God prolong your life and the life of your children. Your slave is 


in great distress due to the false accusations about me and my father. Hitherto I have been 


silent, but it has become necessary to justify myself and my trustee (i.e. her father). I do not want to 


answer them. I have today. I have been arguing with them from the day I married into (their family) 


until now so that they will not take anything from me. On Wednesday, he secretly took 


he bench (martaba), the pillows and the supporting pillow. He was not content with them, 


and no sooner did he sell them, than he came demanding from me something else. When I refused 


to give, he beat me with something that should not be mentioned. Next day in the morning, 


he told me: “Get up and leave to your father’s house. Because if I come back in the evening (and find you here), 


I will kill you.” By the truth of the sharīʿa, it is he who told me “leave!” I sent (a letter) 


telling my lord about my going out of the house. My lord prevented him from doing it. I obeyed 


you and stayed (at my husbandʼs house). When they saw me staying, the quarrel between us intensified.


On Saturday, my mother came to ask about me. He and his father said, “If I satisfy (your wish), 


you shall pay my poll tax every year, otherwise, save yourself (and go away) lest I kick you out (also possible: destroy you). 


All your life you come up with justifications for yourself. He has no (financial) need of me. 


He has four dinars worth of wine (nabīdh) at his possession and he has no need of me. His mother 


and father tell him, “Beat her until she breaks.” Whenever 


 I mentioned to them the divine law (al-sharʿ), they cursed the divine law. When 


I saw them the evil increased from them. They tell me: “Leave!” 


 
Verso
 I left on Sunday eve as they told me “leave and save yourself.” The more we speak (to you, the more) he speaks of denouncing to the government in regards to my lord. Your slave will not give him anything because he has no need of me. Your slave has nothing but the aid of God and our lord. May your peace increase and never decrease.