

 And her speech (was) correct and her language was right in her mouth and she could hear and speak and knew


 what was being dealt with and her mind was sound with her as it should be, to ask and to answer, and to say "yes" when she had to 


 or “no” when she had to, like other healthy people who walk on their feet in the market. And this is what she said before us: Gentlemen, know that my mind 


 is sound and my tongue is right in my mouth. Since I fear that I may die from this illness, I wish to divide my properties this day for after my death 


 and that my will be like the will of a man who makes a will when he is about to die, a will that is complete, binding and valid and that whatever I act regarding my properties be 


 established and verified and without any error. I own a compound in Fustat of Egypt in Qaṣr Edōm, that is in 


 Qaṣr al-Shamʿ, in the Lane of the Poor, that is the Lane ... and this compound is in my ownership 


 inclusive of its exits and entrances, its ascent and descent and any improvement and work done in it, from the depth of the earth to 


 the height of the sky. And although the soil belongs to the king, I gave eight parts out of twenty-four of this compound 


 as heqdēsh to the two synagogues of Fustat of Egypt, four parts to the Synagogue of the Babylonians and four 


 parts to the Synagogue of the Jerusalemites, provided that one third of the rent of this compound every month ... 


 in these two synagogues, to fulfill my words; as the Sages, may their merits last for ever, said: There is a commandment to fulfill the words of the deceased. 


 Also, I sold two parts of this compound to Sutayt, the daughter of my sister, the widow of Ṣemaḥ b. David, for fourteen


 dinars muʿizzī, good and of full weight, that I had previously received from her, and (for which) I bought beams to strengthen this compound. 


 And I have sold these two parts of this compound to Sutayt for these fourteen dinars, a sale that is definitive, 


 complete, binding and valid, from now on to eternity, to her and her heirs after her. And they passed from under my authority to hers as is the way 


 of any buyer, declaring void any protests and stipulations. And I also gave four parts of this compound to Fāʾiza, the daughter of ... ha-Levi, a gift that is 


 definitive, absolute, binding, and valid, provided she marries with them and if, Heaven forfend, God brings about her death before she marries, the sixth of this compound shall pass to 


 the two above mentioned synagogues and her heirs will have absolutely nothing in this sixth of the compound; but if she marries 


 it will belong to her and to her heirs after her, since these are my stipulations, like the stipulations of the sons of Gad and Reuben, the "yes" superseding the "no". And also, that two parts 


 of this compound be sold and spent for what I need, that my bones be carried up to Jerusalem, the Holy City, may it be rebuilt soon.


 And of the remaining eight parts of this compound, four (shall be given) to my brother Sahlān and four to Rayyisa, the daughter of my brother Ephraim, as 


 the Sages, may their merit last for ever, said: “Grandchildren are like children". And I also released, discharged, and disengaged Sayyida, my sister and father's daughter, and Sutayt,  


her daughter, the widow of Ṣemaḥ, the son of David, and her offspring the orphans, sons of Ṣemaḥ, from any claim whatsoever and from any lawsuit and plea and from any ban 


 and oath, or oath by implication, both unspecified and specified, either under the laws of Israel or with the support of the nations. And out of this illness 


 this passed away to her eternal abode, on Thursday, of Kislev of the year 


 1318 of the documents, as is our usual reckoning at Fustat of Egypt, which is situated on the Nile river.


(28-29) And we wrote and signed this deed and delivered it to them as a proof and a title of right from this day onwards. (There follows a validation of words written over cancelations and between the lines.) 

 

Signed ... ha-Kohen, b. Samuel, may the memory of this saint and righteous be blessed.


 