Recto
1. In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
2. I inform the Ikšīl, the Master of the Horses, the vizier of
the king—may God prolong his life,
3. and cause his protection and wellbeing to endure—that
his letter to me has referred to
4. the condition of the travellers from the boats and of others
and that he has striven to ameliorate
5. this situation and the lofty, most glorious and munificent
presence, may God establish his happiness, has graciously
6. released the boats,1 in the knowledge of what the country
is undergoing
7. with regard to the rising of prices, for the travellers have
experienced hardship and (the prices) have risen
8. to the disadvantage of the merchants, so that they have
acquired goods at high prices.
1 This is apparently an allusion to the eparch’s intervention to alleviate
an economic crisis by granting permission for the shipment of supplies.
306 Arabic Documents from Medieval Nubia
9. The Ikšīl, therefore, needs to protect them and care for
them in accordance with
10. their rights, and all the more so since they belong to those
whose right (to protection) is obligatory and the service of
whom is a compulsory requirement.
Margin
1. The bearer (of this letter), the leader Saʿāda, may God decree
his abundant
2. good health, the relative of the noble leader, Hero of the
Dynasty,
3. Ḥāmid, may God decree for him abundant good health,
has departed. The Ikšīl
4. knows what is required with regard to the restraint of his
(the Ikšīl’s) companions and the imposition upon them of
obligations
5. and the prevention of those who oppose him (Saʿāda)
with harm and damage
6. or a clerk who hinders him (Saʿāda) with regard to
Verso
1. pricing or anything else. I have been motivated (to write)
this only by my obligation for the sake of the Master
2. of the Horses and my intention, as witnessed by God, to
draw the hearts of all the people
3. to him, so that this is not hidden from him. So, please arrange
for his (the eparch’s) letter to be sent to me with
authorisation for me to offer the leader Saʿāda
Document 3 307
4. respectful treatment until it (his work) is finished, for
which I would be grateful, if God, the Powerful and Glorious,
wills.2 His reply [ ]
5. would ensure that he would be treated justly in these matters
through me3 by his (the eparch’s) slaves and servants,
if God, the Powerful and Glorious, wills.
6. Praise be to God alone, and His blessings be upon our lord
Muḥammad, His prophet, and his family, and peace.
7. Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!
Address
Right Column
1. To the Ikšīl, Master of the Horses, vizier of the king,
2. Uruwī ibn Ḵiyāḵ, the deputy of the king in the citadel of
Ibrīm,
3. may God cause his health, his protection and his wellbeing
to endure.
Left Column
1. Shadow of his trust and one grateful for his blessing,
2. Lāmiʿ ibn Ḥasan al-Kanzī.