Recto
Testimony which took place before us—we, the undersigned—on (Thurs)day, the twenty-third day of the month of Shevaṭ of the year one thousand four hundred and six years according to the count to which we are accustomed, in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on the Nile River. Thus: M(r.) Solomon b. David, known asal-Dustarī came before us and said to us thus: “I sued Mr. Benaiah b. Moses (who) r(ests in) E(den) in the court (may) Go(d) pr(otect it)for seventy dinars with which I partnered with him by way of a commenda (muḍāraba), and all that came to me from itby way of compensation was ten dinars and (a little) something. The Elders of the Congregation, may they be blessed to the Heavens, came between us and effected a separationbetween us of ten dinars and a single qirāṭ, of which he gave me five dinars and a qirāṭ immediatelyleaving me a balance of five dinars therefrom. We agreed that he would write an agency (agreement) for (a debt owed by) Jacob al-Ḥarīrīfor two dinars which I would take from him (in payments of) a quarter(-dinar) each month, the first of which being Adar of the aforementioned year,and three dinars owed by M(r.) Jacob al-Ṣabbāgh which Ie would take from him (in payments of) an eighth of a dinar each month, the first of which is also Adar,on the condition that I would demand and urge and strive in all that. The guarantee of this five dinars would be the responsibility ofthis m(aster) Benaiah. A qinyan was performed with us in that matter. I agreed to this in accordance with my will, thus testify on my behalf and perform a qinyan with me effective immediately,using all the language of claims, write and sign and give it to Mr. Benaiah b. Moses (who) r(ests in) E(den,) in order that he would have in his hand a title of rightand proof. That was in accordance with my will and desire. I attest before you, without duress nor any of the factors which invalidate testimony,rather with a full heart and a desirous spirit, that I have agreed to this determination. I have received from him the five dinars and a qirāṭ,and I have released him (from the obligation of checking) their weight and engraving, and I have released him from all that I demanded of him in the court (may) Go(d) pr(otect it,) and it from all other claims and demands and obligations and responsibilities which passed between us from the beginning of time until now, a complete and total release,a release of receipt and acceptance, an irreversible release without any legal document nullifying it, a release from me—I, Solomonb. David—and from my heirs after my death from any debt or matter and from overreaching and grievance (claims,) from human law and from Heavenly law,and from oaths and decrees and rider oaths and pronouncements—general and specific—and from the determination of any court, whether in Jewish law