Recto
Abū al-‘Alā b. (A)bū Sahl al-Jubaylī came before us—we, the undersigned—and  stated before us, and called upon us to testify concerning him that,in the soundness of his mind and freedom of his will, he received and accepted from the  Elder Abū al-Ma‘ālī al-Tājir, known as (I)bn Asad,(his) h(onor,) g(reatness, and) h(oliness) our teacher and master Samuel the hon(ored)  courtier, the Sa(ge) and W(ise one), Notable among the Wise, Glory of the Elders, (may  his) R(ock) p(rotect him) b. (our) tea(cher) and m(aster) Judahthe hon(ored) Elder, (who) r(ests in) E(den,) seven gold dina(rs) of good precise  weighed specie, of standard Fusṭāṭ weight, coming into [his] hand [from] him,the aforementioned, in toto and completely, after verification of its coinage and weight.  He attested that he […] that which his father had […]in a deposit of the court. Neither he nor his father has any further obligation whatsoever  with the aforementioned notablewith respect to the deposit, nor with respect to a debt, nor with respect to a pledge, nor  with respect to a partnership (shirka), nor with respect to a joint [enterprise] (mu‘āmala).We testified concerning him, Abū al-‘Alā b. (A)bū Sahl al-Jubaylī, in the soundness of  his mind and freedom of his will, willingly, withoutduress or force or compulsion, with neither negligence nor error, without the illness of  disease therein, nor any of the other factors which invalidatetestimony, that he has absolved the Elder Abū al-Ma‘ālī, the aforementioned notable,  from the deposit which was depositedfor his father with the aforementioned, in a deposit fully relinquished to the court, and  from all the claims and demands and from allthe connections and responsibilities which were upon him (Abū al-Ma‘ālī) for him (Abū al-‘Alā,) from the beginning of time until now, in a complete, total, definitive, certain  release,without any flawed detail therein or argument nullifying it or any interpretation  weakening it, nor any cancellation of its judgment, or any reason diminishingits text; a release from Abū al-‘Alā’ b. Abū Sahl al-Jubaylī and from his heirs after him  to the Elder Abū al-Ma‘ālī al-Tājir, Notableamong the Wise, and to his heirs after him, with the most certain and perfect  stipulations of release, as a decree of the Sag(es, may their) m(emory be) f(or a blessing,)  in the like. “And I have forgiven him allthat has been explained above, a complete pardon, and I have forgiven him completely,  effective immediately, orally and in (my) heart, in this world and inthe world to come.” And he absolved him from all types of oaths and vows and rider  oaths in which he was obligated to him, evenrider oaths and even ḥerem setam. We performed a qinyan with Abū al-‘Alā b. Abū Sahl al-Jubaylī concerning everything ascribable to him above, a completeand weighty qinyan, with an item suitable for doing so, effective immediately, in  accordance with his will, without any duress whatsoever, nullifying all secret dispositions  and conditions. All that wasin the month of Iyyar 1475 (of the Era) of Documents. And our testimony therein was  delayed until the month of Tammuz of the year one thousand and fourhundred and seventy-five years of the Era of Documents in Fusṭāṭ Egypt, situated on  the Nile River, ju[ris]dictionof our lord, our prince, our king, Daniel the Great Prince, Exilarch of all Israel, may  his name endure forever. Everything is properand clear and enduring. Abraham ha-Kohen b. Aaron (may) G(od’s) s(pirit) g(ive him  rest) Mevorakh b. Nathan the Ḥaver (may his) m(emory be) f(or a blessing) This  document was confirmed before us—we, the court of three sitting as one, as Abraham ha-Kohen b. Aaron (may) G(od’s)  s(pirit) g(ive him rest) and Mevorakh b. Nathan the Ḥaver (may his) m(emory be) f(or a  blessing) came,and they testified before us to their signatures written above on this document, in its text  and in its markings. When they testified thus, we declared it proper and endurin/g/as is fitting. Jacob ha-Kohen b. Joseph (who) r(ests in) E(den) Menahem b.  Berakhot (who) r(ests in) E(den) Manasseh b. Joseph (may the) m(emory of the)  r(ighteous be) f(or a blessing)