

       The distinguished master's goodness…


and punishing her every Friday. However, your own words testify against you, and the proof is


that you say, "She does not (even)comb her hair!". (Listen), intelligent one! If she were


feeling well, would she go without combing her hair? For,


were she all right, her body would be perfumed, her hair


combed and parted and she would put her eye-shadow on. As to what you say


that she's shameless and insolent - she's your own, and belongs to you - she's your maternal aunt's daughter! Does a Jew


accuse a child of Israel of shamelessness? My master (evidently) does not know that


the word waqih' is (used for the translation of the Hebrew) 'az pa'ni'm and mamze'r ben nidda'h. Let my virtuous master


.beware of using this word! Coming now to your complaint that she


does not do her chores. Your mother does not know what she actually does. It is


concealed from her. How do you expect anything of the housework to be done perfectly


If you use her as a maid? For you know


she is alone, in strange surroundings, an orphan and (so) young. She has no


one to lean upon, except God - may He help her in His good ways and console her in her orphanhood.


Now my master knows that we accepted the fact that she lives


with you and that we are separated from her. We rely on your


generosity, your chivalry, your piety, your learning


and your noble lineage. We are all agreed that you are chivalrous


and know that you will not destroy her (life) by coercing her, for you are so politic


and manage things so well. May God be good to you and will make you prosper in this world and the next.


        By th'e' 'T'orah, my brother wanted to come to you; however, he


is afraid of (people) talking and of gossip among Cairenes: and foreigners.


Please be as good as you can to her: doing good will put things in order


for you. Receive special greetings from me, and greet


your dear father, may God not deprive us of him and his prayer.for us.


Greet for me the dear doctor, the elder "the sound", may God lengthen


his life; greet the gracious lady Sitt Rayh'a'n;


your sister (too), may God honor her; (also) Sitt al-Khayr and


the elder Samh'u'n. Greet Sitt Ghaza'l for me and inform her


that I have a boy now whose name is Hila'l;


may God grant her children soon. Read her (aloud)


the following words: Sitt Ghaza'l! Remember the training you received


by your mother and father. I swear you by (the God) who will let me see you have a son,


to do and act in the same way you used to act toward your father, grandfather and uncle;


(to act in this way) toward the judge, your great patron, your husband


and your aunt, namely that every morning and evening you will kiss


[their hands …]

