Recto, column one
This happened: Mr. Elijah, son of So-and-so from the city so-and-so appeared before us and made this declaration. [[My wife has died and left life to every daughter to every son of Israel.]] You know of the death of my wife [[in child bed]]. She left me a little daughter of sixteen days today, for whom I am unable to care. 
Now, be witness to the subsequent obligations of mine and make the symbolic purchase from me, using all the legally binding expressions and all the terms conveying rights. Then hand over this document to al-Sitt, ("The Lady"). 
I have received 5 gold dinars from al-Sitt, the daughter of Abu ʿl-Barakat [[of Ramle]], son of Rawḥ ("Blessings, son of Ease") of Ramle,s the wife of Abu ʾl-Maʿāli (“High Rank"), son of Levi, known as Son of Nuʿmān, and have sold her for this sum the above mentioned little girl, whose mother has died during this week. 
Al-Sitt will bring up this girl in the way she deems fit. I have no right to interfere in this matter in any respect. I have also taken upon myself never to demand from her to return the girl to me or even to come near to the place where she lives. Likewise, I also release al-Sitt from any gains the girl may make in her house or while she is with her, or any other income accruing to her from the house (or family) of al-Sitt, or her husband, or from a marriage gift presented to the girl, or compensations given to her for a disgrace or an injury inflicted upon her. I have no rights on anything of this, or anything else, either during the girl's life or after her death." 
I also release al-Sitt her, and her heirs, from all kinds of oaths, light and heavy, including an oath by transfer, and from any complaint I might have against her during her life or after her death. Nor can I claim that al-Sitt was negligent with the girl so that she died. 
Finally, I take upon myself, I, the aforementioned Elijah, son of So-and-so, that I shall pay to the aforementioned al-Sitt all the expenses she had with this daughter of mine, from the day she received her from me, namely the date... 
 
Margin:
of this document in case the girl, after having grown up, demands to return to me and I take her back." 
 