recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
This is what the two elders, the notable Guardian of the Dynasty ʾAbū al-ʿUmar Hibat Allāh ibn al-Ḥasan ibn ʾIbrāhīm ibn Ṭalʿa, and the dignitary Glory of the Dynasty
ʾAbū al-Ḥusayn ʿAlī ibn ʾIbrāhīm ibn ʿAlī ibn Nahray, the two certified witnesses in the border town of Aswan, hired from Sirāj ibn Mario, the Christian,
al-Muqurrī. They hired from him with their money, for themselves, all of the ‘gliding’ boat, made of acacia wood and Theban palm wood,1 the capacity
of its load being one hundred and fifty irdabbs, with a sail, the upper part of which is coarse cloth, a mast with a saddle, an awning, a deck shelf, four
oars, an iron anchor, which is made fast with rope, all that such boats need in the way of equipment. (They hired the boat) for the purpose of loading (and transporting) goods to
the border of the region where Muslims have the right to travel (al-islāmiyya), travelling up- and downstream, from the coast of Bilāq to the Island of Michael in the Land of the Nubians, in a period
beginning in Kīhak and ending on the last day of ʾAmshīr of the Coptic months, within the year five-hundred and sixty-six (December–March 1170–71 AD),
with the stipulation that they sail downstream from the Island of Michael on the first day of Baramhāt, the Coptic month, within
the aforementioned year, for a rent whose amount for the aforementioned period is fifteen dīnārs, of standard weight, in gold, in minted coin of full weight,
valid Egyptian coins of al-ʿĀḍid, of good alloy. The two elders who were the lessors paid to the one leasing to them, who is named together with them in it (the document), all
the aforementioned rent, namely fifteen dīnārs with the aforementioned properties. And he received that from them, completely and in full, and he released them from
that with a valid release, a release of receipt in full. And he handed over to them the aforementioned gliding boat, on the condition that if they stay on the Island of Michael
for a day or several days of Baramhāt, they would be liable to (the payment of additional) rent in consideration of this. The lessor fixed the cost for them at
three in every ten parts of the cargo going upstream and what was bought with it going downstream. Duty was not liable on it going upstream, but was liable on it
going downstream, in accordance with customary practice. They received the aforementioned gliding boat in accordance with what was stipulated. They contracted that between them with a valid contract
after they discussed it together. Testimony was borne to the acknowledgement by the lessor and the two elders, Guardian of the Dynasty and Glory of the Dynasty, the lessees
named in the document, of everything that is attributed to them in it, while being in sound mind and body, legally capable of conducting their affairs, willingly, not coerced
nor forced. This was in the border town of Aswan on the 20th day of the month of Rabīʿ I of the year five-hundred and sixty-six (12th December 1170 AD). Testimony was borne to this.

witness statements

ʾAḥmad ibn Naṣr ibn Hibat Allāh ibn Ḥusayn ibn ʾAḥmad bore witness to the acknowledgement
by the lessor and the two elders, the preacher Glory of the Dynasty
and the notable Guardian of the Dynasty, the two named lessees in it of what is in it on its date. On its date (?)
ʿAlī ibn ʿUbayd Allāḥ ibn ʿAlī ibn Sharīk bore witness to the acknowledgement by the lessor
and the two elders, the preacher and dignity Glory of the Dynasty
and the notable Guardian of the Dynasty, the two lessees named in this document of everything attributed to them in it on its date. On its date (?)
