Recto

In your name.
I am writing — may God lengthen the life of my lord the elder and preserve his wellbeing, happiness and benefactions — from Alexandria,
with four days remaining in the month of Tevet — may God conclude it for us and for you in the most favorable manner. All is well and in good order, praise be
to God, lord of the universe. Your letter arrived, carried by Faraj the courier (fayj). I learned from it about the state of your wellbeing, and I was delighted about it.
My lord mentioned the situation with respect to the promissory note (khaṭṭ) to your credit from the preceding year which is in the account book (daftar al-ḥisāb). I have searched through the letters
and account books (dafātir) that I have taken and found in them that there remains a balance in my favor after having deducted the fourteen and a half
dinars and half-qirāṭ that I spent. The details of the latter sum are as follows: one-half, one-quarter and one-eighth (dinars) from the shoes you sent as a gift with Maymūn;
then there were the 4 dinars; then there was the remainder owed to Ibn al-ʿAshʿāq, which came to two-thirds dinar; then there was the reduction (dis­count) in the price of the rubāʿīs (quarter dinars) belonging to Falāḥ, which came to two dinars
and one-sixth; and the price of the dirhams, which came to one dinar and one-sixth. All of these items amount to a total of 14 and one-half dinars and one-half of a qirāṭ.
According to the information in your promissory note (khaṭṭ), there remains a balance in my favor of 120⅓ dinars. My lord, we have no need of this latest account of yours, and I have not sought it 
from you. This is an old account. However, would you please, my lord, in accordance with your customary kindness, extract the balance
pertaining to the current year, including the entire sum that has accumulated with you to my credit after you have com­puted all the transactions. This should come to 310 dinars.
The details of this sum are as follows: A credit of 120⅓ dinars carried over from the previous account; the price of the good dirhams belonging to Maymūn b. Yaʿqūb, which came to 7⅛ dinars;
and from the 80 dinars less two qirāṭ that I left with you after my return from the Shām,
there accrues 28⅙ dinars; and from the 20 Rūmī dinars and 8 qirāṭ, there accrues 16⅙ dinars; and from the large
purse, 115 dinars and one qirāṭ; and from the 32 Rūmī dinars and two qirāṭs, there accrues 27⅛ dinar. All this
adds up to 310 dinars. The following is a detailed breakdown of what you have expended on my behalf: For Ḥasan (?) al-Andalusi, one rubāʿī; for Hārūn b. xAmmar - 13 dinars; the sum paid to Al-Kohen at the Bar al-Baraka - one dinar; the price of a bale of pepper and its transportation and other expenses - 145 dinars and five and one-half airat; for a sack of flour and its shipment - two dinars and one-half and one-eighth of a dinar; in the possession of Tayyib - 50 dinars, which are the price of 100 of two ruba%i pieces (?) .  Then you have a credit with me of 16 dinars which includes the amount I collected from Abu Ghalib; for after I settled accounts with him he paid me a dinar and one-quarter       and they turned back the claim for one-half dinar to xAllush the beadle.  You paid, on my behalf, one dinar to the Rabbi; and your share of the indigo was 20 dinars.  All of this comes to: 249 dinars and two and a half qirat.  The balance in my favor, therefore, is 60 dinars and one-half, one-quarter and one-*-eighth of a dianr and one-half airat.
In your letter you mentioned that you realized 4 dinars and two and a half airat from the sale of the coral.  You also mentioned that 50 dianrs arrived for Hassun b. Musa b. Ishaq; if you can, please inform me how much of these (?) Abu xAli Hassun b. Ishaq took.  In the account, you did not mention the price of the sari (mayzar).  I swear by God that I would not have searched through the letters and extracted the information in this letter were it not for your statement in your preceding letter saying: "Check my letters which you have with you and keep them safely and keep track of what you have sent to the West on my behalf and also pay careful attention to my account."
I wrote, in a memorandum that there remains with you a credit in my favor of only (?) 17 dinars less the price of the sari. And [  ] to Abu xAli Hassun.  Please inform me exactly what he (i.e. Abu xAli Hassun) took from you so that I can add it to the account [          ] And I will reply to your letter and keep you informed about it.  The account is his account, which I have sent with [          ] and to Ibn Farah. Please take good care of it until I can check what I owe him, so
that I can pay him [......................................... ] God alone knows how I exert myself [       ] [        ] Ibn abi Salih.  You mentioned in your conversation his partner [................................ ] this concerning our Rabbi, Kathir (?), may God grant him life.  I would like you to [     ] in your generosity with respect to this transaction [.... ] . Oh, my lord, [       ] from the harshness of life and loneliness.  My young son, may God exalt him, has been left bereft of his parent.  I hope that God will make known to me his blessing.  I have no one who will hand me a cup of water.  I am in dire need of someone to serve me.  I have found no one suitable here in the Jewish quarter.  If you do not have a solu­tion "for the problem of which I informed you, send me a letter to that effect.  And if there is not [  ] and a solution, then please procure a slave girl for me who is suitable for serv­ice, trustworthy and concerning whose chastity people will bear witness.  Please take care of this for me.  If you are able to do anything in this regard, let me know her price in your letter.
It is only the fact that I am all alone which is keeping me from coming myself in the place of this letter and accompanying my lord, the Amir.  I have no one else who either enters or leaves the house.  I have no one who will hand the children a cup of water, nor anyone who will open the door for them except God and myself.  By God and by my father, I would not have bared my soul to you, except that it helps to relieve the harshness of my life and of that which I am expe­riencing.  Would you please, in accordance with your customary kindness, kiss the hands of my lord, the elder Abu Saxd on my behalf.  Inform him of my situation and tell him that the col­leagues of my master, the Amir have come up to see him and that I could not undertake the journey for the reasons that I have men­tioned to you.- If you gain entrance to my lord the Amir and have the opportunity to speak in his presence, inform him of my cir­cumstances and long-suffering.
Were it not for these, I myself would be in the place of this letter of mine.  Were I only able to find someone with whom I could leave my youngsters, I would certainly be in the place of
this letter of mine........................................................ Perhaps I will find someone
with Vhom to leave the youngsters, and will be able to leave to come to Fustat.
The news of the movements of my lord the exalted Amir has just arrived.  Please find out for me quickly from my lord, the elder Abu Sa^id - may God preserve his glory and make permanent that which he has granted him - whether there is any need for me to come up to Fustat and then write telling me what he says to you.
I sought guidance from God the exalted and glorious and sent a bag of coins with the elder Abu Ishaq.  He will deliver it either to Abu Ghalib the wakil or to someone else connected with the latter.  It weighs 105 dinars, and there is a note in the bag containing details about the coins.  In accordance with your cus­tomary kindness would you please sell this bag of coins for me arid, with the price you fetch for them, purchase dinars which are accepted in Alexandria or old quarter dinars which are accepted in Alexandria.  Please send them to me with whomever you see fit to do so.  This will be a kindness to me. I have informed you of this.
I send you my best regards.  Convey my best greetings to my master, the Rabbi.   Regards to the elder Abu Zikri and to my lord the elder Abu al-Fadl b. al-Sukkari.  My best greetings to my lords, your brothers-in-law - each in his own name.
Also convey my best regards to Abu Yusuf Yaxqub and tell him that he did not write me the size of the mats which he mentioned to me.  I do not know what he has in mind nor their measurements. Let him send me the type and inform me of the length and width he desires so that I can purchase them for him.
I sent to you a glass jar of minced salt-fish made in Alexandria.  I sent the book to my brother-in-law Harun and told him to transport it to you together with my cloak.  I will make every effort to send them.  If I find someone with whom to send them or, if someone is travelling from Fustat to here and then returning, I will send them with him.
If there is anything you need done, please honor me by requesting it from me.  Abu ^Imran Musa b. Abi al-Hayy has already departed from Alexandria.  He will send them to you in the countryside (rif). When the dirhams arrive, I will do with them as you instructed in your letter. ADDRESS In your name.
To my lord, the elder Abu Yahya Nahray b. Nissim May God lengthen his life and preserve his well-being and grace. From the one who is grateful to him, Marduk b. Musa
