Recto (catalogued as verso)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

You refer {alt. tr.: He refers} to the letter


of [Fara]ḥ and… {read: Faraḥ, which was sent} from ʿAydhāb to Mr. Joseph, in which he says: 


“There arrived with us about 80 bales,


all of {or: the best of it} lac. We shall send this in installments,


so that it may reach the market.” To this I have to remark that this letter


is of no avail for Mr. Joseph at all. For although


 
Verso (catalogued as recto)


we concede that these bales belong to


the partnership, we still need someone to prove to us


that those 22 bales were included in the 80


mentioned by them and were not part of something else. The proof


for the fact that they were not part of the partnership is that the letter


to him (to Joseph) says: “I shall send them in installments,” which proves


that the bales, which he did not send to him,


did not belong to the partnership. Had they sent them (the 22 bales) to him or to


the agent and instructed him to deliver them to


Lebdi, as they did with regard to the aforementioned


(80) bales, they would have belonged to the partnership.


However, since they wrote to the agent letters in which they requested “Leave them {alt. tr.: Sell and leave their proceeds}


with you until we arrive, and there is no hand


above your hand,” they (the 22 bales) are excluded from the partnership with Mr. Joseph.


 
I, 28a - labeled as leaf 1v in Goitein/Friedman

 
First it is necessary to say to him: Who is it
who spoke of this or ever mentioned it? What necessity
requires mentioning this? When was it proven to us that
those people had a find or inheritance? Who mentioned it
or spread such a rumor about them in any way whatsoever,
so that we should say in their name
something that neither they said nor was said in their name? Nor did the heirs of
Farah?, who took their true share and
one of whom had been present with Farah? and this Abū Nasr?,
mention this in their name or consider it their right at all.
They rather took their share, acknowledged the truth
and went on their way. It is forbidden to mention this, because it has not been proven to us
and it was not said in their names and no rumor was spread of it by them or by anyone else.
It therefore becomes like nonsensical talk. I read the
passage from my words and from the words of the Judge— may the Merciful One protect him!—and I saw
the wickedness and evil his words contained and their lack of learning.
I adhere to my practice. But I clearly note
that should he attack me after this epistle,

I, 28a - labeled as Leaf 3 in Goitein/Friedman
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As to his challenge to me 
that I tell him who said this, my response is: those—
may their memory be for a blessing!—who said “He takes an oath and collects half,” namely the Judges of Eretz 
Israel, whose words you should heed [. . .]} 

I, 28a - labeled as Leaf 2 in Goitein/Friedman
 

I will not follow in his footsteps with words like his, because there is 
no profit in this. It would be preferable for him to guard his tongue. Should he have 
information, he should cite it and refute with good manners and abandon 
bad manners and disparagement. That is a sign of fools. 
For the present, I say no more...

