Verso, left

according to his situation. Also, from the beginning
after their/our arrival (in Aden), his intent was to deceive
regarding everyone's letters. And it may be said
that I did not bring a letter.
Rather, someone else is bringing them,
even the letters of Yosef and Khalaf
and everyone (else), and R. Yaʿaqov's letter
as well, as he ordered, if there was one.
Then they all dispersed.

(continued on recto, right)
Recto, right

If even one letter is delivered to Maḍmūn,
he will try to deliver
the letter of Rabbi Yaʿaqov letter according to Maḍmūn's
order and decision, as well as
the letters of the entire group, even if something arrives
from elsewhere, on his order,
and he will endeavor as much as possible to make *peace*
between them. Thus will both of them
aim to forgive,
take an oath and apologize.
He will write a testimony about the situation
and (about) forgiving them. He will endeavor
to get Maḍmūn to sign with his own hand
if he is asked about them. He will hurry to 
it all, the night after
he arrives. Ibn Jamāhir's letter,
if it is necessary,
and (even) if it isn't, should be put aside. Another letter
will reach Yosef in the hands of al-Futīḥī

(continued on recto, left)
Recto, left

with the letters of the Nezer with
goods from [Bū] Saʿīd.
He will try to do what [the ray]yis deserves. As for the goods
[or m]oney of a refund during
[the g]athering — and it will take place , whether I go back to Egypt or whether I go to India - according to his opinion, after writing a letter informing him what was concluded and what happened. And what belongs to the tiara, will be sent to him by a faithful person, as well as the letters of the 'Reis', if you can find a Gentile to bring them, all the better. And if not, they will be attached to my letters to my brother. And he must be instructed not to read them but him. And also he wanted fifteen royal dinars - pearls and... for decoration, if they are found and they are cheap, and if not - they should be put away. And also to buy a slave for 'Rice', between a small pleasant one and a good small captive, between a captive '...Hadia' at the time of redemption from one of the battles?. He also deserves/will receive for him a precious stone for the ring, which will be for the purpose of beauty, and if not - it must be put away.
