Recto 

And say to him: All your life - peace upon you, peace upon your house, etc.
The Lord will guard you from all evil, he will guard your soul,
The Lord will guard your going out and coming in, from this time forth and for ever.
To the presence of my brother, the delight of my eyes, my lord and leader, most esteemed by me, the crown of my head, and the one on whom I rely. May God prolong his life in happiness,
guard and keep him and never deprive him of his good guidance. Dear brother, may God protect and never forsake you,
may he be your help and sustainer, your support and trust from this time forth and forever. I entered Sicily with my family coming from Tunis
because of the privations suffered there and the horrors witnessed in Ifriqiya and also because of my longing for you. I intended
to travel to Egypt via Sicily, for it is not any more possible to travel to Egypt directly from Ifriqiya.
I planned to arrive in Egypt this very year, but God had willed otherwise.
The obstacle to my travel and coming to you was illness in the family, which lasted four months.
By Israel's religion, my misfortune forced me to spend 50 Murabiti dinars, for the wife fell ill
and also the two little ones, and God willed that one of them died, the baby, he was one and a half years old -
may your life be prolonged! Then on the voyage to Sicily I was overcome by a disaster the like of which I have never witnessed.
A great storm seized us on the sea and we were forced to land on an island called Ghumur . We stayed there for twenty days
with no food other than nettles. When we set out from there we did not have any more the look of
human beings. The seas tormented us for thirty-five days and we were regarded
as lost. For we set sail in four barges (qarib), but only ours survived.
After arrival in Sicily we were so exhausted from our sufferings at sea that we were unable to eat bread or to understand what was said
to us for a full month. This is the reason which prevented me from coming to Egypt this year. After all we have endured
this year we are not prone to travel. You must see us with your own eyes; no description can do justice to our state. Furthermore, it is now three years that I have not seen a letter or an answer
from you. I am very much upset, and this, too, makes me reluctant to come. Dear brother,
by God, do not withhold your letters from me, for I am waiting for them. I am staying here in Sicily, by God, do not withhold
from me your letters…, for I am yearning after you and my mind is very much perturbed since the time
your letters ceased to come. Write also about the poll tax. If you intend to move, the best thing is to come to
Sicily (or: Palermo), for the spices of the Orient sell here well. Thus, it will be for both pleasure and business. We shall help one another
in enhancing the prestige of the family and shall be happy with one another.
[Goitein's translation skips a few lines]
 
This letter was written
on the New Moon day of the month of Sivan. By God, I need not entreat you again to answer quickly, if God wills.
Peace upon you and God's mercy and his blessings. And your welfare may wax for ever and never decrease, Amen.
My son Abu 'l-Hasan sends greetings to you all, and so does the dweller of my house - to everyone, young and old.

Verso; address 
To my brother… Abu ‘l-Barakat, son of … al-Abzari…Fustat. From his brother Abu Sa’id. 
 