Recto


On Thursday, the fifth day of Kislev, in the year

1409 by our reckoning in Fusṭāt,
Egypt, on the river Nile,

Mr. David b. Mr. Joseph—may he rest in Eden!—(appeared before the court) and sued Mr. Joseph b. Mr. David


of the Lebdiyya family {alt. tr.: known as Ibn al-Lebdiyya}, after David’s attorneyship had been established in court, for the gift made to Sheikh Abū


Zikrī Mr. Judah, the Chosen of the Yeshiva, b. Mr. Moses—may he rest in Eden!—by our lord and master


Moses, son of his honor, our lord and master Labrāṭ, the Head of the House of the Masters {alt tr.: rabbis}—may he rest in Eden!—namely fifteen


units of corals, ten of the shākh (‘branches’) kind and five diqq (‘chips’).


When asked about this, Mr. Joseph said: “Concerning what he claimed, I do not know anything


whatsoever.” Then Mr. David, the attorney, produced evidence, namely that


persons present in court said that when the letter of our lord and master Moses, the judge, had been read to him,


the (president of) the court asked him: “What do you have to say about this?” Mr. Joseph then replied:


“Mr. Moses, the judge, sent with me scraps of coral chips in order


to sell them in Alexandria and (= or) Fustat. When I did not sell them,


I took them with me to Nahrwāra, sold them there and bought


for them three flasks of musk, which I sold in Alexandria for


13 ½ dinars.” When he said to him: “Will you deliver these 13 ½ dinars


to his (the judge’s) uncle?,” he replied: “I have learned that the judge took from Daʾūd (David), the Tripolitanian Kohen,


what I had asked some of my relatives in Tripoli to send me, which they did,


but which arrived in al-Mahdiyya after my departure, namely, a sum of 10


Murābiṭī dinars. Moreover, I had deposited silversmith tools belonging to my brother with the judge.


When my brother arrived in al-Mahdiyya and asked the judge to return them to him, he told him: “These are my collateral for


10 dinars.” He took from him 10 (al-Mahdiyya) dinars, but informed him that the tools


 
Verso


had been taken when Raqqat al-Mahdiyya was ransacked, and only a hammer remained, which he delivered


to him. Said the Court to him: “If this report turns out to be false, will you still withhold from


the judge what belongs to him? You had better buy him goods for that sum and let him have


the profit to be derived from it.” He (Lebdi) replied: “I am prepared to do this and shall take the goods with me, for I am


traveling there.” When the Court remarked to him: “The (Ibn Sughmār’s) attorney might not be pleased,


if the goods were in your hands,” he replied: “I am prepared to do this with [alt. tr.: to have them in the hands of] a third party,


and if the judge has got what belongs to him, the goods plus profit will be mine,


otherwise they will be his.


The proceedings have been written down, etc.


Abraham b. Jacob—may his soul dwell in bliss!—Derʾī. \\Hillel b. Eli.//


Solomon ha-Kohen b. R. Joseph, ‘Father’ (of the Yeshiva)—may the memory of the righteous be blessed.


 