My illustrious elder and master, may God prolong your life and make your well-being and happiness permanent, may he in his mercy always favor you and keep away from you all that is bad and hateful.
 
I am writing at the beginning of Shevat, asking God to make it the most auspicious and blessed of all months for us and all Israel.
 
I wrote you a letter, my master, with the first caravan5 and informed you that the pearls with which you favored me have arrived. . . . Thanks to God and thanks to you, my master, they brought profit and blessing. May God be praised.
 
The textiles in that consignment were sent by me to Spain, for they do not provide me with sustenance here this year. I have sent you, my master, . . . (with) Musa Ibn al-Majjani, may God keep him, a purse with 120 dinars in number and 118½ and 2 qlrats in weight, 5 of these dinars are in rubaiyyas (quarters).
 
May God keep them in his mercy. I ask you now, my master—I know, I am imposing on you—to buy pearls, if they are good and to be had, prior to the departure of the people for Mecca and send them with the very first man setting out for here; and please send them by land.
 
If pearls are not to be had, keep the money until the pilgrims' caravan returns from Mecca and God will give you opportunity to buy them.
 
If, God forbid, pearls should be scarce this year, buy pearls for one half of the sum sent, and for the other half good indigo or . . . All this should be sent overland, if God wills. But you, my master, are alone competent to decide. I ask you, my master—may God keep you—to be patient with me for I am a burden on you. So act, my master, in this matter in a way for which God will recompense you in this world and the world to come.
 
Accept, my master, my most special regards, and greetings to my masters Abu Ί-Fadl and Abu 'I-Tayyib and also to all those encompassed by your care.
 
(In the margin:) I prefer everything to be sent by land.
To my master Abu Ί-Faraj—may God prolong his life—Joseph b. Jacob b. 'Awkal and to Abu Ί-Fadl and Abu Ί-Tayyib, Hilal and Benjamin, the sons of Joseph. From their grateful Faraj, the freedman of Barhun.