Recto


 Record 


 of the compounds that are at present foundations of the Jews for their poor 


(3-4) as cited in their entirety and specified by the administrator (in charge of) collection: 

 

 the compound known as (of) al-Rayyis Abūʾl-Manṣūr, paid its debt, 30 dir. 


 The misṭāḥ known as (of) (A)būʾl-Jabbān, paid its debt, 11 dir. 


 Half of Dār Shirkat b. Sālim, paid its debt. 


 The compound known as Dār al- Zayt paid its debt. 


 The compound (known as the) apartment (of) al-Aʿmā in the lane of the Synagogue paid its debt. 


 The duwayra, the apartment of Ḥayyūn al-Ḥaffār, paid its debt. 


 The compound between the two synagogues, paid its debt. 


 The compound in the Khabīṣa lane, the apartment of b. al-Qābila, paid its debt. 


 Half of Dār Shirkat b. ʿUjayla, paid its debt. 


 The room adjacent to the synagogue, the apartment of Ibn Abūʾl-Ḥann, paid its debt. 


 A third of Dār Luffāhā in darb al-Ḥudayjī (?), paid its debt. 


 Half of Dār b. Pinḥās , opposite it, paid its debt. 


 Half of the compound known as (of) al-Qābisī in the al-Turmus lane, paid its debt.


 Half of Dār al-Nāqa in darb al-Ḥarrānī, paid its debt. 


 Half of Dār al-Khall in the said darb, paid its debt. 


 A compound known as (of) al-Ṣabbāgh in the said darb, paid its debt. 


 The slaughter house in the Lane of the Poor, paid its debt. 


 A quarter of the compound in the said lane, paid its debt. 


 Half of Dār Shirkat Badr al-Daqqāq, paid its debt. 


 
Verso


 A quarter of Dār al-Sukkarī in the al-Dukhkhān lane. paid its debt. 


 The duwayra in the al-Dukhkhān lane, paid its debt. 


 Dar Mudallala, the apartment of Ṣafiʾl-Dawla, paid its debt. 


 The funduq between the two synagogues, paid its debt.


 Half of the duwayra in al-Qālūs, 1 paid its debt. 


 The funduq in Sūq al-Kabīr, the apartment of Abū Muḥammad, paid its debt.


 Dār al-Maqādisa in al-Mamṣūṣā, paid its debt. 


(8-9) There are no other houses of the Rabbanite Jews in the collection of Maḥfūẓ except these that are mentioned above.

 

 