recto (IB II, 17)

The letter of my lord, the most illustrious elder, has arrived—may God make permanent 
your well-being, may He guard your life and humble those who envy you! It was
a most gladdening letter and a most delightful message. I was happy to learn of your well-being
and your prosperous circumstances, and I have entreated God (to grant you) more of every good thing,
in His mercy. I noted that you mentioned in your esteemed letter
that you had sent some pepper in the ship of the nākhudā 
Rāmisht—twelve bahārs of small measure.
This has arrived and (I) your servant went to collect it. From this is to be deducted

recto (IB II, 19)

[continued from II,18] the price being 17 dinars (per bahār). The (total) value:
247 ¼ dinars. From this is to be deducted
the ‘tithe,’ the expenses {alt. tr.: toll}, and the (cost of) the porter,
27 ¼ dinars, leaving 220
dinars. Therefore, the sum total owed you is (approximately)
535 dinars. I (your servant) bought you
three bags of copper, weighing
five bahārs, at a cost of 83 (dinars per bahār).
The (total) value: 415 dinars.
The number of pieces in each bag is twenty-three. 
The cost of hides and packing: 1 ½ dinars. Exit tolls
from the Furḍa, 4 ⅛ dinars. I sent you
this in the ship of the nākhudā Rāmisht,
one bag; in the ship of al-Muqaddam, one bag; and in the ship of
Nambiyar (ani?) {Read: Nmby Rwy}, one bag—a total of three bags. Freight charges for 
this (were) 4 ½ dinars. (Also) charged to you, the registration fee from {alt. tr.: of} the 
ship’s captain for the pepper and the iron, two dinars.
Also, there are charged to you copper bars, twenty-five
pounds, twenty-eight pieces in number,
worth eight dinars; a basket of dates,
one hundred and fifteen pounds, worth 2 ¾ dinars;
the cost of an Abyssinian hide, two dinars; the price of ten
Berbera mats, which are in a package
marked in Hebrew and Arabic, one dinar;
a zodiac carpet, worth five dinars, a maqṭaʿ cloth,
and two Manārī kerchiefs {alt. tr.: fūṭas}, worth six dinars—
all this with Abū Ghālib, the ship’s captain.
He also has with him a piece of lead, weighing
two hundred and forty-five pounds, worth
28 ½ dinars and two qīrāṭs, the price (per bahār) being 35 dinars;
freight charges for the piece of lead, one dinar. Abū
Ghālib, the ship’s captain, has with him also a purse, 

verso (IB II, 19)

in which there are 20 Egyptian mithqāls, worth 47 dinars (Malikī).
That purse contains (also) seven Malikī dinars.
The total sum: 535 ⅓ dinars.
This settles my lord’s account. There also arrived
the ‘eggs,’ which you sent in the ship of
Ibn Abu ʾl-Katāʾib, and this was received by the elders Joseph
and Khalaf, according to the distribution which you indicated
in your letter. The betel nuts, which
you sent to your servant, also arrived, and this is on {alt. tr.: against} the balance of
my account with your excellency {alt. tr.: which you owed me} from last
year. But the betel nuts were extremely mediocre, both the white
and the red ones. There also arrived what you were kind enough (to send), namely four 
locks and two qaṣʿa-bowls. Your servant has sent to you
with Abū Ghālib, the ship’s captain, two large brazilwood boxes with
sugar, and two brazilwood boxes with raisins, and a package with
three dasts of Egyptian Ṭalḥī paper of the best
obtainable quality. Please accept this, my lord,
and may you think well of me! If you have any
need or service (to be done), I would be happy {lit., ‘give me the pleasure’} to take care of them.
May you have abundant well-being! And peace.

verso, Hebrew address (IB II, 17)

(To) The most illustrious elder, my lord Abraham
Ben Yishū—May God preserve your well-being!
(From) Your servant Maḍmūn
b. al-Ḥasan b. Bundār.
