Recto

I am writing to you, my lord and master, may God prolong your existence and make eternal your glory, from
al-Quds (Jerusalem), may God rebuild it. My health is good, praise and be to God for his
benefactions. God the exalted knows the anxiety I feel at your news and how
troubled I was collecting the debt owed to you.  But God the exalted 
replaces and compensates. But don't let it worry you: I plan to return
to the blessed al-Quds, and the holy one, blessed be he, will not let me perish.
You know, my lord, what Barizillay said: "Let your servant go back
etc. (and let me die in my own town, near the graves of my father and mother, 2 Sam. 19:39)." As far as livelihood is concerned, it's not a matter of willing it to happen. 
You're aware of what the man of God, peace be upon him, said: "The race is not 
won by the swift etc (Nor the battle by the valiant; Nor is bread won by the wise, Nor wealth by the intelligent, Nor favor by the learned. For the time of mischance comes to all." Ecclesiastes 9:11)." You know everything that has been said
about it, may God keep you. At the moment, I am (writing about) something else: 
a debt that Thābit owes me, which would take too long to explain. I collected five
dinars, among them two full dinars, and the rest Sicilian quarter-dinars,
some good, some old and clipped. If I could agree with someone right now
to send them to you, I would send them, since It's not the kind of thing
for which one writes a suftaja. I'd like to send them to al-Arrajānī 
and subtract something from them and take a suftaja for the amount, if a letter from you arrives
to that effect. He said that he has a partnershp (muʿāmala) with R. Avraham b. Yiṣḥaq
ha-Talmid. As for what you said to me about the situation (of Hiba), 
if he were present in al-Quds, I would bring him him and force him 
to withdraw the money for you, and I would collect it from him. But 
he's not here — he's away in Zughrar. I asked someone to write to my lord
the ḥaver R. ʿAlī to help me rescue your property, and also
to my lord Abū Isḥaq Ibrāhīm, masos ha-yeshiva, may God protect him.
So please wait for whatever will happen and I'll keep you posted. I also wrote
to my lord Abū Isḥaq Barhūn son of Moshe he-ḥaver, may he rest in peace, 

Recto - right margin

to the same effect, may God the exalted support you. Enclosed in this letter
