Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
The letters of my honourable lord the Ikshīl, vizier of theking—may God establish
his happiness and protect his status forever and suppressthose who hate him
and his enemies—have reached me and I have read themand taken note of their contents. I thank
God, the Exalted, for his safety and health, and I requestHim to increase these
for him and grant him eternal wellbeing. As for the statement of the Ikshīl, may
God cause his support to endure, that I have shown neglect for his status and have not inquired
about him, the situation is not like that. I recognise his eminence, and am steadfast
in my love for him and my gratitude to him in all circumstances. As for the situation of the trade consignment,
since your honour requested it, when I reached the land, Iasked about
it, but did not find any of it. I did not want to1 neglect thisand so I
sent somebody to Qūṣ to buy it. I promise when he has reached me
safely I shall send it to him (i.e., you) with anybody whoarrives. I swear by God
that no perfumes have arrived from al-Makārim that I could send to him (i.e., you), rather

Recto, margin

I am waiting for the arrival of
al-Makārim so that I can send (to you) what he has man-aged to find and trade.
Your honour has asked about his news and I
am making inquiries for you. If he manages to find suchmerchandise,
I shall send it to him (i.e., you) to his (i.e., your)
satisfaction. The reason I have delayed sending my letters
to him (i.e., you) is only that I travelled to say farewell
to the commander Treasure of the Dynasty (Kanz al-Dawla), may
God establish his good omen and his glory,
so that he may carry out all his tasks
successfully.

Verso

I request the Ikshīl kindly to send me his letters containing
what tasks or services he may have (for me to carry out). Ihave sent with the conveyor
of these words (i.e., this letter) a payment, which consistsof a raṭl of vinegar and an ounce of spikenard
for the housekeeper. I had already sent him (i.e., you) anadvance
of two ounces of nascaphthon roots with one of his (i.e., your) messengers who indeed knew her (the housekeeper). I send
the honourable Master of the Horses warmest greetings,the purest love and respect,
wishes for future good, if God wills.
