Recto

My lord and master, may God lengthen his existence and preserve his benefaction, and may He act for him and with him as a friend and protector. (I am writing) from my 
habitual abode on Monday, 5 Tammuz—may God bring it to a most favorable conclusion for you and make known to you 
the blessing of all the months that follow—in a state of well-being occasioned by your own good circumstances, praise be to God alone. Your letter has arrived. I learned 
many things from it that caused me joy because of the fine state of your well-being and good health, may God, in his mercy, preserve these for you. You mentioned that you kindly 
wrote to Raʾs Baradānī concerning the purchase of wheat. I would ask you to please write once again and stress the matter. For I cannot 
count on anybody except God and you to assure its arrival. I have ordered the mats to be made; I have been run­ning back and forth every day to check that
they will be delivered. As for the gafar, I have already packed it in the basket.  The chest has arrived with Ibn al-xUjayli; however, since the departure of Al-Kohen, we have been unable to sell any­thing.

On this very day, a barge fkhinzara) arrived carrying a man called Ibn Benaya who was the messenger of the first ships (?) (or: was your messenger/representative to)   and he brought
letters with him from the people on the boats.  From these let­ters and from the information of the passengers on the barge (khinzira) it has been confirmed that the following ships passed safely into the open seas: Ibn al-Iskandar, Ibn Labad, Al-Qadi Bu Talab, Al-Mufaddal, the vessel of Ibn Madhkur, the vessel At-Tarajima, and (the vessel) Al-Jilani (maybe he means Al-Jiljilani).
The barge entered (the port) together with the ship (markab) of our lord the wazir).  The vessel (garib) fo Al-Ghazzal was sighted at suhat (?) Bargu; at Hirasat al-Qadi (the ships) of Sadaqa b. As-Safrawi, Ibn Rahmun and Ibn al-Udi (were sighted); at Ra's Tini the ships Sabi b. Shablun and Ibn Zaffat; at Shaqqat al-Waxr (the rocky crevice), to west of Tobruk the ships Al-Lakki, Al-Mursi, Ibn Shabih.  The second vessel of Ibn Madhkur, Ibn Shabani (?) , Abbas ANshas, the vessel of the Amir and that of Ibn Abu al-Qansh (were sighted) at Al-Malha.  I have informed you of this, and may God facilitate their safe arrival.
The 2 (objects (?)) arrived, and Marwan took them.  A man  Please take care of this matter immediately, and stress the importance of drawing up the account and send him the balance without delay.     
In your letter you mentioned the death of Rabbi Hanya the maternal uncle of our lord, At-Tabib.  May God have mercy on him and avert this fate from you.  Similarly, may God have mercy on the brother-in-law of our lord the haver.1
I am unable to describe to you my own distress and that of our colleagues at the events which took place in the synagogue of Ashmun.  We are helpless in the face of it, and I do not know what I can say except: "Blessed be the righteous judge."
I send to you my best regards and regards to Al-Kohen.  Abu al-Hajjaj sends his best greetings to all of you and urges that you sell the hides for whatever price God will provide.  Please do not postpone doing this, for he relies upon God and upon your kindness to see to the sale (of the hides).  Also, make an effort to sell the cloak made of rough cloak and purchase for him a bag of flour with your own money, and do not necessarily wait until you have sold some of his goods.  It is imperative that you buy this bag of flour for him and your next letter should confirm the fact that it has been purchased.
I, your devoted friend, Yusuf b. Farah, send you my best regards and I inform you that Yaxgub has already arrived here. He mentioned that he has purchased the flour and that it is now in Fuwwa.  He experienced great difficulty with Ibn Anqab (?) and his sister on this one occasion.  I am very perplexed by this occurrence, for he (i.e. Ibn Anqab) has closed his stall.  If he (alternate interpretation): you mentioned the death of Rabbi Hanya, your maternal uncle, the doctor.  May God have mercy upon him and also on your brother-in-law, the haver.
should come to Fustat, please stress to him (the importance of sending on the flour).
A khiti vessel set sail from here carrying some Sicilians who hope to catch up to the ship.  I have entrusted them with various letters.  I sent along the letters of Musa to my lord Abu al-Fadl your maternal uncle.  You mentioned that you will send the let­ters destined for Abu al-Fadl with a certain man.  I hope that they will reach me, for I am anxiously waiting for their arrival.
Please, kindly inform me concerning the condition of Musa and whether he has resumed his activities in the stall (dukkan) with you. [I hope             (?)] that your collaboration and activities
remain in a good state.  I am concerned about him, may God see to his well-being.  Please convey condolences to him in my name on the death of At-Tabib.
ADDRESS
To my lord and master Abu Yahya Nahray b. Nissim May God lengthen
his life and preserve his well-being
From Marduk b. Musa.
 
Recto, right margin
Recto, top margin
Verso
Verso, right margin
Verso, address
