Recto

... Būsh and all ...
... the aforementioned, from wherever he has bought the ...
... or not, and you will be obligated to convey to him the tax ...
... Abū l-Ḥasan the aforementioned ḍāmin brings from the request ...
... he was owed after a year if his ḍamān ... 
... agreed upon up unitl Jumādā I of the year [5]44 ...
... Abū l-Ḥasan the ḍāmin acknowledged that he had paid him in installmen[ts ...
... to Rabīʿ II of the year (5)44, the year ...
... a single dirham, and Abū l-Maʿālī answered him to ...
... J]umādā I mentioned above. Abū l-[Ḥasan] paid ...
... cas]h, good Egyptian (coins), of full weight ...
[We the undersign]ed effected a qinyan] from Abū l-Ḥasan al-KOhen the ḍāmin that he ...
 a complete qinyan] with the formula “effective immediately,” of his own free will, without cohercion at all, declaring void any declarations [or conditions]
ḍ]amān of Būsh and its environs from the aforementioned Abū l-Maʿālī, to the end of Tishri [of the]
previous [year], may we be destined for life in it, which is the year 1461 Sel., which is Jumādā I of the year 544
according to the Arab calendar, up until the last farthing, and releases him from it with a valid quittance (barāʾa), and that he
has undertaken to guarantee (ḍamina) for him ... in this, if any defect should unexpectedly arise in what he has asked from him (regarding?) the installments of the ḍamān, ...
from him ... to the end of the aforementioned (month of) Jumādā, he shall fulfill it for him thus, (likewise) any dirham he has lost of it
or by virtue of it, he is the one who shall fulfill (al-qāʾim) it for him from his own money. If he incurs any unexpected losses, whether facing difficulty in demanding [it
tax ... aforementioned that he faces difficulty in demanding from him, he shall be obligated for it from now ...
as well as loss because of it shall be incumbent on him, and that he has released him from all this and from [all debts]
demands, connections and responsibilities that were between them  from the beginning of time until now,
from the time of God the exalted's creation under the heavens, those of which he is aware now and those of which he is [unaware, those that were known
to him and those that were not, whatever it might be or amount to, whatever he might demand for the silk
vacant in it, and that he has discounted him completely and from which he has released him ...
the ḍamān that it is in his hand to the end of the aforementioned Jumādā I, a complete and total quittance that he may ... [and from all]
types of vows, simple and grave, even ḥerem setam and even [rider oaths
do to him until the end of the a[forementioned] Jumādā I ...
And when we had effected a qinyan from Abū l-Ḥasan the ḍāmin ... 
in the month of Elul, 1460 Sel. in Fustat under the authority of our lord Sh[emuʾel ha-Nagid, may his name be magnified]
forever. We have signed it and delivered it to Abū l-Maʿālī to serve in his hand.
a codicil written between the lines. Abū l- ... 
to serve him as proof. Valid and enduring. Berakhot ha-Kohen
