Bodl. MS heb. d 66/64 64 Recto


On Monday, the eighth day of the month of Iyyar, 1409 E.D.,


Mr. Jekuthiel, who is mentioned on the reverse side of this sheet, appeared in court and sued Mr. Joseph,


who is also mentioned together with him (overleaf), for a bale of ⟦liche⟧ dry storax weighing


380 manns, asking where and under which circumstances it was sold. When Mr. Joseph was questioned about this,


he said: “I sold 80 manns of that storax in Dahlak for 40


Dahlak dinars, worth ten Egyptian dinars, and took the remainder


with me to India, incurring expenses for customs, tithes and freight {alt. tr.: tolls}. The remainder was sold


for 120 Nahrwāra dirhems, worth about


eight Egyptian dinars.” Then Mr. Jekuthiel said (to the judge): “Ask him whether he carried the storax separately,


whether he bought it on his own account, or carried something in it.” Lebdi said: “I carried in it corals


belonging to me from Dahlak to India \\approximately one qirāṭ,// which did not require additional expenses all the way [alt. tr.: for which I was not required to pay a toll] to India. I carried it (the storax) to Nahr


wāra. When I arrived there, I took the corals out of it (the storax) and paid there for it


the customs and tithes (referred to before, but nothing for the corals,) for they are free of customs there {lit., ‘and tithes, because there are no dues on corals there’}. Nothing happened to the storax


until my arrival there and its sale. After efforts on my part, its proceeds were 120


dirhems, as mentioned before.” Then Mr. Jekuthiel said: “I gave him 20


excellent Egyptian dinars, for expenses; ask him how they were spent.” Questioned about this,


Mr. Joseph replied, providing details on those 20 dinars: “Of these I spent one dinar


and a half for freight from here to Qūṣ.” Said Mr. Jekuthiel: “These one and a half dinars 


are charged to me for what?” Joseph replied: “For the storax, the lichen


and the rest of the goods, such as the copper, the textiles, ⟦the cor(als)⟧, the dodder of thyme. This freight was received by


Fatān. Dues in Akhmīm and in Qūṣ amounted to one-eighth dinar each. When I arrived in


Qūṣ, I bought canvas and equipment {alt. tr.: packing materials} for camel transport \\and salabī ropes// for about one-half dinar.


Halters and payment to the weigher: one-eighth dinar. Hiring two camels from Qūṣ to ʿAydhāb: 5


dinars for a weight of about 800 Laythī (pounds). Having arrived in ʿAydhāb,


I paid one-quarter dinar for the brushing {[lit., ‘combing’} of the {add: bag of} textiles and two qirāṭs for the porter, and put down


in ʿAydhāb five and a third dinars for the two camels and two qirāṭs for porters.


 
Bodl. MS heb. d 66/65 65 recto


In ʿAydhāb, I put down one-quarter dinar for repacking the stuff in two bales, as it had been before,


and one-quarter dinar for mats; for porters and the skipper of the boat: one-eighth dinar, paid


before the two bales were laded. For the freight


from ʿAydhāb to Dahlak I paid six and a quarter dinars, and in Dahlak customs duties for the two pieces


six dinars, after having given bribes to the amount of one dinar and two [qirāṭs]. For the freight


of the piece of \\lichen// I paid 1 dinar from Dahlak to Aden.” He (Jekuthiel) also asked him (Joseph) about the corals,


which he had sent with him. He said: “Yes, I received them, traveled with them to Nahr-


wāra and exchanged them for 95,000 beads, which I put


into bales of lac, nine in all. Of these,


eight were lost by shipwreck; one bale (of lac) containing one bag (of beads) was saved 


and is here with me.” He asked him also about the 70 dinars obtained through the sale of 


textiles and other goods in Dahlak, namely, what {add: ⟦you⟧} he bought for them. He replied: “I did not buy


him anything for them, but took them with me in specie to Aden, to Ḥasan b. Bundār, 


\\together with my own money// and asked Ḥasan to grant me an advance on 50 bahārs of pepper, ⟦\\of which// to Mr. Jekuthiel⟧ of which


15 bahārs were for Sheikh Abū Yaʿqūb. I assigned this to him \\in my heart.// I could


not specify this expressly for Sheikh Abū Yaʿqūb, lest something


happen and the entire shipment would be lost.” Then he asked Joseph also about the lichen, the silver (vessels), the dodder of thyme,


and the scammony. He replied: “I carried all these things with me to Aden in my own name


and stored them with {alt. tr.: I unloaded them at the place (warehouse) of} the representative (of the merchants) Ḥasan b. Bundār, also in my own name, but told him 


‘sell them ⟦separately⟧ \\apart// (from my goods), for they belong to Sheikh Abū Yaʿqūb.’ As to the copper, I sold a quantity of it


which was not suitable for export to India, bought another type {lit., ‘a substitute for it’}, and sent it ⟦for him⟧ to the region of


pepper, to be sold there; so that pepper would be bought for its price by the agency of Ḥasan b. Bundār. I do


not exactly remember whether I did this in the name of Sheikh Abū Yaʿqūb or in my own name.” Finally, Sheikh


Abū Yaʿqūb said to this Mr. Joseph: “On whose orders did you do all these things you mentioned,


 
Bodl. MS heb. d 66/65 65 verso


such as shipping some goods (to India) and leaving others in Aden, and other actions, none of which I instructed you


to do?” He replied: “When you gave this to me, you said to me, ‘these goods are yours, do


with them ⟦as you see fit⟧, as you do with your own merchandise.’ Because of this, I did all those things.


My handing over of goods {lit., ‘what I handed over’} to Ibn Bundār was done at your suggestion and on your instructions


for the purchase of pepper.” The proceedings


etc. Hillel b. R. Eli—may his memory be blessed!


Abraham b. R. Shemaʿya, etc. 


Nethanel b. Japheth—may he rest in Eden!
 