

.... and four hundred according to the era to which we are accustomed here in Fustat of Egypt which 


is situated on the Nile River. This happened to pass: There appeared in the Great Court before His Honorable and Great Sanctity, our Master and Leader, our Lord 


David the Great Nāsī, the Head of the Diasporas of all Israel, the son of His Honorable and Great Sanctity, our Master and Leader, our Lord Daniel,


the Great Nāsī, the head of the Yeshīvā Geʾōn Yaʿaqōv, may he rest in honor, Meshullām b. (empty space) 


known as Ibn Shurayq al-Dimashqī, and this is what he told us : Bear witness against me and transfer the ownership 


from me as from now on, using all expressions conveying titles of right; write, and sign, so that it be a right and an evidence, 


that I made waqf of the compound, which I own in the city of Damascus, that is adjacent to the Great Synagogue to 


.... I Meshullām b. (empty space), known as Ibn Shurayq, to the Great Synagogue and it is sold (to it). From now on it is 


heqdēsh to the Great Synagogue. It belongs to it inclusive of all its belongings and boundaries, from the depth of the earth to the height of the sky and 


its entrances and exits. I did not leave anything in it for myself, nor any of its rights, 


nor for my heirs after my passing away. Whoever might come, from the four directions of the world, son or daughter, brother or sister, 


near or far, a Jew or an Aramean, and contest what I have dedicated .... 


above, his words will be void, and considered as a shard found on a street, that has no substance. And any deeds issued to oppose or to nullify this deed are void 


and will not be considered for a case in court. And I took the (transfer of) possession on myself 


which is not like securities, nor like formularies of deeds, but has the severity (and compulsion like any deed) 


made according to the statutes of our masters and that is usual among people. From this day and for ever, having nullified any (future) protests or conditions 


by any expressions stated by our masters as fit to nullify protests or conditions with. And we acquired from the said Meshullām 


everything that is written and specified above, by an instrument that is fit to serve for acquisition. Sound, firm, 


and valid. And so we wrote and signed and handed over to whoever is entitled to it Damascus, so that it be held by them 


as a right and an evidence; (the words) "any deeds issued (to assert) something or to nullify", that are written between the lines, are valid, and here is their validation; 


“void” that is written between the lines, is valid, and here is its validation. 


 