Recto

In Your name, O Merciful.
Previously, a letter had been sent by me //to your noble excellency//—may God lengthen the life of my lord, the illustrious Sheikh
Abū ʿAlī, my master and lord Japheth, the esteemed and honored elder,
the Leader of the Congregations, may He always support, elevate, and strengthen you, 
and crush your enemies! The content of that letter, after you will have taken cognizance of it, relieves me
from repeating its details here. 
It is difficult for me to describe to you—may God protect your honored position!—
the bickering and quarrels I have had to endure from Sheikh Abū Yaʿqūb al-Ḥakīm
with regard to the goods I had carried with me for him, the choice part of which I left
with my lord; namely, the small pieces of silver,
seven in number, whose weights were indicated by al-Ḥakīm
(as mentioned) in my previous letter; [[and the bag of copper]] the bale of lichen,
weighing 400 manns; the bag of copper—
110 pounds;
dodder of thyme—
10 manns; all according to him, and a small container with scammony. What took place
between him and me your excellency is too illustrious to hear. However
those who will arrive from here at your place—may God make your honored position permanent!—will tell you what
happened.

Recto - right margin

I have granted him an advance of 100 dinars for these goods until their proceeds arrive. But after these settlements
had been reached between us, we both turned to arguments and wrangling until

Recto - top

it led to lawsuits. Finally, upright
elders intervened, suggesting several matters {add: details of which will follow} according to which today [[the . . .]] an agreement was reached

Recto

to the effect that I should write to your excellency, my lord, the sheikh, as follows: Please list
all the proceeds from the aforementioned goods
belonging to Sheikh Abū Yaʿqūb the Doctor, including
what was salvaged of the 50 bahārs (of pepper), on the payment of which
my lord had given me respite {alt. tr.: against which you, my lord, had given me an advance}, for I had assigned to him in my heart
15 bahārs out of these. My lord, do me a favor.
List all this. From the total,
deduct all that is mine, namely 100 good
Egyptian dinars, in return for the 100 dinars which I advanced him
here <<(1); subtract also 11½ dinars (2) from the proceeds of the aforementioned goods>> and hand over the balance to your representative.
Please oblige me in this matter, as is your usual good practice with me
at all times. I know well that I am causing
your excellency much trouble and feel very bad about this {lit., ‘trouble and am disturbing you with this’}. But
it is not my fault. I am forced to do so.
The account to be handed over to your representative
should be made out as {alt. tr.: When your representative collects, what he is to collect, it should be registered in} a deposition in court in the assembly of the elders and signed by
them.I wish to inform you also that it was established in court
that, of the proceeds (from the Doctor’s goods) in your hands, my lord, 100 dinars
plus the 11½ dinars paid by me for {alt. tr.: if the sum . . . equals an amount of 100 dinars and the 11½ dinars, the remainder of} the copper, transport expenses
of three dinars, and five dinars for each of the 15 bahārs of pepper, are {alt. tr.: it is} mine.
All that is above that total is his; all that is less is mine {alt. tr.: If it is more, the excess belongs to him; and if it is less, it is mine}; he is not responsible for it. 
