Recto
On Friday, the third of Av, may God transform it into joy, of the year 1542 (of the Era) of Docume[nts,]we, the witnesses who have placed our signature at the end of this document, were present for the matter in which [we] test[ified] concerningthe Elder Abū Sa‘d b. Ibrahīm al-Ṣabbāgh and the Elder Abū Manṣūr b. al-Sūkka[rī]and Suleymān b. ‘Imrān al-Ṣabbāgh and Futūḥ b. Abū al-‘Izz al-Ṣabbāgh.The Elder, the aforementioned Abū Sa‘d b. Ibrahīm, said to us, “We acknowledge before you that we, the aforementioned four of us, agree that each of us //would bring out // a certain amount and buy with it merchandise and the like, and we would travel toal-Shām. I brought out 83 dinars less two qirāṭs and they also brought outgold and we bought merchandise and the like, and we dispatchedtwo shipments from the customs-office, I had the 83 (dinars) less two qirāṭs in the two shipments, and the rest of the shipments were theirs.As when we arranged to travel, exalted God decreed and I fell ill (and) a change in constitution came upon me,and (I) could not travel. Now, testify concerning me and perform a complete qinyan with me, that I have placedthe 83 din(ars) with them as a commenda, with which they will travel to al-Shām, selling and buying, and of whatever God brings about in terms of profit, half and a twenty-fourth will be theirs, and a third and an eighth will be mine, for I have given them preference over me in the profit by a twenty-fourth //which will be// the wages for their work and maintenance. If they experience a loss,half of it will be upon me and half upon them. Similarly, I have paid to this Suleymān b. ‘Imrān 19 dina(rs)as a commenda; of whatever he achieves in terms of profit, half and a twenty-fourth will be his andhalf less a twenty-fourth will be mine, as I //have given him preference// by a twenty-fourth above the half, which will bethe wages for his work and maintenance. Testify concerning me that I have made it possible for them to act in thiscommenda as they see for the good.