Recto

God is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear, etc. the one indebted to you, Solomon son of R. El[ijah].

The reason which prompted the sending of this paper to my dear brother, –-


the distinguished elder, Abu'l-Faraj, The Glory of the House of the Exilarch, may God perpetuate his honored position


and establish his prosperity, and may we be united with your pleasant countenance - God on high be willing ---


is my great longing for you. I have sent to you one letter through Isma''i'l


and one letter through another person, but have received no reply. There have arrived


many Alexandrians, not one of them bearing a letter. So I have


become worried for you, and thought you might be ill. For we did not think that you have been hindered


from [writing] us save by a compelling reason. Also, before this,


there came a woman - and I don't know who she is, except that Sitt Ghaza'l knew her; she sent


with her a letter to take care of my aunt Umm Abu'l-'Izz


because she traveled to your place. Also, when she left, she promised her daughter


to write her a letter so that she be assuaged, and so that we be assuaged about her well-being


and her safe arrival there. I have, therefore, been quite astonished about this thing.


May God, then, calm our hearts by letting us hear about you that you are well,


as are your dear relatives. Your daughter is quite well and lacks


nothing, save being able to gaze upon you, and save your not forgetting to inquire about her in your dear letters.


       ] all. I ask, since you are so kind, that you take good care (of that woman) whom God commands


us to honor, and do not be remiss with her. We know how virtuous you are


and how much you care for her. May you be amply rewarded.


Peace be upon you, your wife, your dear brother and his wife and children, your father


                perfect peace, sublime goals, and honor.


Margin


  …..the mother……….


…………..


Forgive me this [


since I was in a hurry.


Thank you for


that. Peace


Verso


To the hand of the distinguished and august elder Abu'l-Faraj, glory of the House of the Exilarch


from Cairo, from the one who is indebted to him for his kindness, Solomon son of R. Elijah, Judge of Egypt.


                   blessed be the one who will transmit this letter. Amen forever Selah, Amen forever Selah.

