Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
The letter of my son—may God prolong his life and cause his support, his happiness, his safety and wellbeing to endure —has arrived
and I have read it and noted its contents. I was pleased to hear that you are well and in good health. I have received
what you have graciously given me by the hand of your companion Ibrāhīm. May I not be deprived of him or left alone without him.
He should be rewarded. May there be many like him among the people. I have sent a slave girl with
Ibrāhīm (as payment) for what is owed together with her two children. Forgive me (for the delay).
Let me know whatever you need. I know that I owe you a debt arising from the fact that
I sold the slave girl of my own accord (without consulting you) and (I know) what you have spoken about me. God willing,
I shall send her to you. Your two companions have seen my messenger whom I sent in connection with
the slave (al-waṣīfa). Do not have any worries. All will be well, God willing. She (the slave girl)
is a beauty who is like a jewel. The Master of the Horses kisses your honourable hand and makes a request to
your honour. What is requested from my lord is that you do goodness and kindness to your slave (the Master of the Horses).
His (i.e., of the Master of the Horses) two wives send their best wishes. You are always so kind.

Recto, margin

Praise be to the One alone
Our sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso

Do not be anxious about the lantern, which I sent to yourmother. She was on
a journey and she did not have it with her (and so could not send it to you). Everything will reach you as required and as is appropriate. A
fine lantern will be conveyed to you by her slave, God willing. Do not be concerned. I send you greetings.
I have given a slave girl to your companion ʾIbrāhīm who suits him well.

Verso, address, right column

My honourable son, the elder ʾAbū al-Ṭāhir,
may God preserve his life and cause his safety and wellbeing to endure.

Verso, address, left column

One who is grateful for his kindness, the Master of the Horses
and vizier of the king, Uruwī, governor of the land of
Marīs.
