
On the date Monday, 28th of Av, may God turn it for the better, of the year 5335 of the creation [=1575], prattle
and quarrel and dispute had happened. Everyone who wanted to be appointed to the duties of the late, the honourable R. Jacob the cantor, because he was the chief cantor
and a beadle in the Bet Simcha synagogue, and a [children's] teacher—may he rest in heaven—was found unsuitable for it. None of them was acceptable. He who
wants it stubbornly stood up against our master Exilarch Aaron—may his Rock and Redeemer [=God] protect him—and against the honourable R. Joseph al-Tawrīzī—may his Rock and Redeemer protect him—the judges. Thus, the aforementioned
judges order, according to what they saw "with the eye of fear [of God," and chose R. Judah al-Tawrīzī the physician—may his Rock and Redeemer protect him—to be a chief cantor,
because he has a pleasant voice and he is expert on every matter; and to be a beadle of the synagogue, because he is suitable for it. He will
serve 3 years without salary; and should obey the aforementioned judges' orders; and he should not disobey them in any religious matter.
He should fulfil the duties of the synagogue's service, as the former beadles have done; and he should fulfil
the duties of the cantorship in weddings, circumcision celebrations, and mourning ceremonies, and should not be negligent in doing any of it, in neither large nor
small matters. He should behave humbly with the congregation and relate to them with a good heart, and greet the congregation, their old and their young,
and not do it lazily. He should not say: "I am working without salary, nobody has a claim on me, and I will do
only what I choose"; and he should serve his friend as well as his enemy, in greetings and condolences and the like. Then R. 
Judah al-Tawrīzī was brough, and heard all of what is written about him above, and he agreed with all that was mentioned above, 
and accepted it for himself, according to what is mentioned above for the aforementioned period. After that, the aforementioned judges assigned
that it is not possible for any of the congregation (members)—may they be blessed—to be appointed instead of him, nor to replace him, because he is doing it only "in the name
of heaven" [= with pure intentions], and there is no option for any to object to him with obstinancy. And [...] everything that was done. All of that happened of their [free] will
