Recto
 


[Blessings etc. ?] from Him who dwells


in the heavenly expanse.  To [my son?] my beloved only son Mar


Fudhail, from me, your mother Archondou, and from my husband


Mar Elia. Receive many greetings.  You know, son,


we are alive and we trust by God's mercy


that you are also well (?). As you know, son,


... has gone to her eternal home (may there be


life and peace to you and your household and to all Israel). I have heard,


son, that you have hurt your eyes, and by the faith


of Heaven from the day I heard that my eye has flowed


and I have wept night and day and without cease.


You wrote to me that you have bought a ?mattress (τυλάριν): now if


you listen to my advice, son, sell it and keep


the money. Take care of yourself, son: if God


helps you and has mercy on you, concern yourself with the success of your ?business


and may the Holy One, Blessed be He, have mercy on you and ..., because God knows


the things they are saying about you, that no ear should


hear. And why should you, son, want to buy


a... or a ?mattress (τυλάριν) or anything else? And everyone


curses you and says, Cursed be he, Cursed be his name


if he meets from this day on with that wife of his.  Know,


son, that every day Ma'foudh the son of


Mar ?Idias comes and nags me about the quarter


dīnār that you borrowed from him


Verso
 


And if [God?] helps you ...


buy me 3 ... of good ... and I


will repay you the money. And know, son, that I have bought


you ... and half a rotel of almonds,


but I could not find a reliable person to send them to you.


Many greetings to you, my son, from me, your mother,


... and from ?my sister D... [And I desired?],


son, to go up to Fusṭāt, but when I got as far as


Buhaira there was such a strong wind that I could not find


a boat prepared (to sail). And ... and my eyes hurt


very badly and I give 3 zuz every week


to the doctor, and I cannot move from this place. If


God is good to you do me a favour and come quickly


to fetch me out of here so that I do not die, and may your prosperity


increase and not decrease. Amen.


Ask for my son Mar Fudhail in Fusṭāt. From me


your mother Archondou in Alexandria.

