recto

...] in His mercy. I noted that you mentioned
in your esteemed letter
that you had sent some pepper in the ship of the nākhudā Rāmisht
—twelve bahārs of small measure. This has arrived 
and (I) your servant went to collect it. From this is to be deducted
—as you mention in your letter—forty
-five pounds, leaving you eleven
bahārs and two hundred and fifty-five pounds, the price being
34 dinars (per bahār). The (total) value:
403 dinars, minus one-sixth.
From this (sum) is to be deducted the ‘tithe,’ 82 ¼ 
dinars; the cost for taking delivery of the goods, 4 ⅙ dinars;
the cost of baskets of palm leaves and a porter, one and one-quarter and one-sixth dinars;
a total of 88 dinars minus one-sixth,
leaving 315 dinars (in your favor).
You mentioned that you sent in the ship of the nākhudā
Abu ʾl-Ḥasan b. Abu ʾl-Katāʾib some refurbished
iron—twenty-one bahārs. But
the nākhudā Abū ʿAbd Allah, his son, gave me only
seventeen bahārs of large measure; he stated that
the Bānyān (the Indian merchant), whom you asked to take charge of {alt. tr.: to whom you referred him for collection of} the iron,
had delivered no more than this to him, saying that the rest of
the iron was in the highlands and had not yet arrived. In reply, I held him (Abū ʿAbd Allah) to be under obligation {alt. tr.: I bound him by a stipulation},
if this were not true,
to pay the price (of it), according to the sale value in Aden.
He is to pay this to you, my lord, in India.
The iron I received from you in Aden is twenty
bahārs and one hundred and twenty pounds of small measure.
From this is to be deducted: for the elder Joseph b.
Abraham, three bahārs and one hundred and eighty
pounds; for Khalaf b. Isḥāq, two bahārs
and one-quarter—a total of five bahārs and two hundred
and fifty-five pounds, leaving you four-
teen bahārs and one hundred and sixty-five pounds,
the price being 17 dinars (per bahār). The (total) value:
247 ¼ dinars. From this is to be deducted
the ‘tithe,’ the expenses {alt. tr.: toll}, and the (cost of) the porter,
27 ¼ dinars, leaving 220
dinars. Therefore, the sum total owed you is (approximately)
535 dinars. I (your servant) bought you
three bags of copper, weighing
five bahārs, at a cost of 83 (dinars per bahār).
The (total) value: 415 dinars.
The number of pieces in each bag is twenty-three. 
The cost of hides and packing: 1 ½ dinars. Exit tolls
from the Furḍa, 4 ⅛ dinars. I sent you
this in the ship of the nākhudā Rāmisht,
one bag; in the ship of al-Muqaddam, one bag; and in the ship of
Nambiyar (ani?) {Read: Nmby Rwy}, one bag—a total of three bags. Freight charges for 
this (were) 4 ½ dinars. (Also) charged to you, the registration fee from {alt. tr.: of} the 
ship’s captain for the pepper and the iron, two dinars.

verso


Also, there are charged to you copper bars, twenty-five


pounds, twenty-eight pieces in number,


worth eight dinars; a basket of dates,


one hundred and fifteen pounds, worth 2 ¾ dinars;


the cost of an Abyssinian hide, two dinars; the price of ten


Berbera mats, which are in a package


marked in Hebrew and Arabic, one dinar;


a zodiac carpet, worth five dinars, a maqṭaʿ cloth,


and two Manārī kerchiefs {alt. tr.: fūṭas}, worth six dinars—


all this with Abū Ghālib, the ship’s captain.


He also has with him a piece of lead, weighing


two hundred and forty-five pounds, worth


28 ½ dinars and two qīrāṭs, the price (per bahār) being 35 dinars;


freight charges for the piece of lead, one dinar. Abū


Ghālib, the ship’s captain, has with him also a purse, in which there are 20 Egyptian mithqāls,


worth 47 dinars (Malikī).


That purse contains (also) seven Malikī dinars.


The total sum: 535 ⅓ dinars.


This settles my lord’s account. There also arrived


the ‘eggs,’ which you sent in the ship of


Ibn Abu ʾl-Katāʾib, and this was received by the elders Joseph


and Khalaf, according to the distribution which you indicated


in your letter. The betel nuts, which


you sent to your servant, also arrived, and this is on {alt. tr.: against} the balance of


my account with your excellency {alt. tr.: which you owed me} from last


year. But the betel nuts were extremely mediocre, both the white


and the red ones. There also arrived what you were kind enough (to send), namely four 


locks and two qaṣʿa-bowls. Your servant has sent to you


with Abū Ghālib, the ship’s captain, two large brazilwood boxes with


sugar, and two brazilwood boxes with raisins, and a package with


three dasts of Egyptian Ṭalḥī paper of the best


obtainable quality. Please accept this, my lord,


and may you think well of me! If you have any


need or service (to be done), I would be happy {lit., ‘give me the pleasure’} to take care of them.


May you have abundant well-being! And peace.


 