Recto

… her …
… and I shall not abandon her, and I shall not diminish her food, clothes and sexual intercourse …
… with faithfulness and honesty. And the mohar that I stipulated and allocated for her is fifty coins of silver …
… in weight of ten, seven, of al-cAzīzī coins. I advanced her from them ten …
… and binding. And this Farajiyya, the young girl, the virgin, daughter of Jehuda, accepted and wanted to be married to this Yeshacya, the groom, ben Isaac, to be [his wife] …
… to obey, esteem, respect and help him, and to do in his house all that the pure daughters of Israel do in the house of their husbands, and to behave towards him with love and compassion …
… [to be under his dominion] and to have her desire directed towards him. And this Farajiyya willingly appointed her agent, Manṣūr ben Yeḥai ben Abū’l Shahabā to marry her to Yeshacya …
… advanced dinars from her mohar. And two trustworthy witnesses, Ḥasan //Yefet// ben cAmram known as ben Shemūn and Solomon ben Manṣūr testified about her in this matter.
… [Manṣūr ben Yehai], the agent [came], and declared before the elders, and called them to witness about himself, that he willingly, with full resolve, according to his wish and desire, received the payment of the mohar from this Yeshacya …
… the virgin, ten dinars. And he wanted to marry this Farajiyya to this Yeshacya with the aforementioned mohar, and on the conditions mentioned above.
… These are the belongings that this Farajiyya brought with her from the house of her father to the house of her husband Yeshacya: two rings of gold and silver, 2 din.; two festive dresses a red one and a scented one, 8 din.; a whitish festive dress …
a shirt, a wimple, a mantle, 1; a Ţabarī sofa, 7 din.; a canopy […] din.; a blanket, 3 din.; two beds and 11 pillows, 10 din.; a chandelier, a bucket, a basin and a ewer, 7 din.; a bedstead, 10 din.; pair of …
… a container, 1. The total value of all [these belongings that this Farajiyya brought] from the house of her father to the house of her husband is eighty one and a half dinars. And Yeshacya declared …
… that he took upon himself that he will keep them like everything which belongs to him, and that he will not change anything from them without [the knowledge of his wife] …
… worn out … 
