T-S Misc.35.10 1 Recto, Right Side

that many good dinars. And when I will come
to her I will give her that many further dinars,
the payment of her advanced mohar. And there will remain
for her incumbent upon me, and upon my estate after me that many good din.
as a true debt. And so-and-so son of so-and-so,
the father of the young girl declared that he wanted to marry his daughter
such-and-such, this virgin, to this so-and-so, with the mohar
detailed above in this document, and that he took
and received the payment from this so-and-so before the elders
on that day, so many dinars. And they came

T-S Misc.35.10 1 Recto, Left Side

under his jurisdiction and in his possession. And thus they stipulated between themselves
this so-and-so and this so-and-so that if, God forbid, this so-and-so wanted
to divorce his wife, this such-and-such, he will give
her half of the advanced portion from her mohar
which is so many. They both also wanted and united themselves in agreement
that they will observe the festivals of the Lord
according to the sighting of the Moon and the finding of aviv in the Land of Israel.
And we performed the qinyan with this so-and-so about all that is written
and detailed above, and we wrote, signed and gave
to such-and-such, this virgin, to be in her possession as a testimony
which is not like asmakhot and not like mere formularies
but like the validity of all excellent, valid,
strong and binding documents, according to the law of Moses and Israel
may they build and prosper.

T-S Misc.35.10 6 Recto, Right Side

A formulary     In the name of the Everlasting God. God made him                                                            prosper (II Chron. 26: 5).
of a deed         In the Lord they will be justified and praised etc. (Is. 45: 26).
of betrothal
On the day so-and-so of the week, on so-and-so of the month
so-and-so, of the year one thousand four hundred forty
four of the exile of King Yehoyakhin, may the Mighty one gather
And if you want of the year one thousand three hundred      the dispersed                                                          ones of his people
twenty one years of the era of the Greeks                                    Israel
in Jerusalem, the Holy City, may it be rebuilt promptly                A
In the city of Ramle which is in Sharon near (Lod)                       men.
in the Land of Israel. On this day came so-and-so son of so-and-so
before the elders who sign below in this document
in the year one thousand four hundred
forty seven years of the exile of the King Yehoyakhin

T-S Misc.35.10 1 Verso, Left Side

and said to them: Be my witnesses and perform the qinyan
with me now, write and sign about me that with full rights
I am telling before you, and I am not
coerced, not mistaken, not in error and not forced
but with full will and resolve, according to my will
and wish, and desire of my soul that I betrothed such-and-such
daughter of so-and-so, the young girl, the virgin, daughter of so-and-so with fifty
coins of silver, the mohar of her virginity. I also added for her
so many full, good dinars. I have advanced
her from them, in the hands of so-and-so son of so-and-so, her father, before you, on this day
