Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate. 
I inform my honourable master, the most illustrious elder, may God prolong his life and cause his strength,
his exaltedness, his ascendance, his splendour, his loftiness and his elevation to endure, and crush in vile humility
his enviers and enemies. As for other matters, I journeyed beyond
al-Marīs and arrived at Aswan. My horse was covered in dust (and exhausted).
All the people of al-Marīs have gathered and they are coming to you. I asked (them to allow me) to come with them
and all that has prevented me is the cost of the transport. It is not appropriate for me to go up (the river) and leave the cost of the transport
behind me (i.e., without paying it). Qāsim has arrived at your place and he had made an arrangement
with people that they should finish their business with me (and let me go), but they have still not finished their business with me. By God,
send me the piece (of cloth) and the clothing. Also a letter has come after me (i.e., has been sent after me) from home.

Recto - margin

Perhaps you could have ʿUmar or Khalīl or one of you to come to me in Aswan
with my goods that I have with my slave boy and (also come) to Fāris. If not, we shall manage.
They are all in Aswan.

Verso

If you find somebody who will buy the helmet, the pen- knife, the three scabbards and the spear,
then sell them. For God’s sake, encourage one of your group to come to me, for my horse is weak
and I cannot come to you. When you come down (the river), bring with you the slave girl to me.
Everything is fine. Do not listen to the talk of people and the rubbish (they speak). As for the freedman,
we brought him for the sake of the young girl. Do not leave him, but bring him with you.
As for the chain of gold coins that will be in the possession of the women, bring it with you. As for the saddle pads
that are with ʿAjlān the tanner, take them from him. By God, take for me the price of the five
portions, which are owed to me by the governor. Do not leave them. Take their price. By God,
convey (to me) half by means of the small slave .. [ ] quickly, quickly, quickly!

Verso - margin

If none of you comes to me, I shall go.
Best wishes to you and likewise to all our companions.
Praise be to God alone, and His blessings be upon our lord Muḥammad, His prophet.
My sufficiency is God. What a fine keeper is He!
