
‘The Lord answer you in the day of trouble! The name of the God of  Jacob protect you!’ (Pss 20:2).  
‘May He send you help from the sanctuary, and give you support from  Zion’ (Pss 20:3).  
‘He has pity on the weak and the needy, and saves the lives of the  needy’ (Pss 72:13).  
To the honourable, great and holy, glorious crown and diadem, a good  name from above.  
To our master and teacher, our lord David the Great Prince, Head of all  Israel in Exile,  
may our God keep him and our Lord preserve him and our Creator protect him, and may God allow him  
to see male offspring from his loins, to take his place and the place of  his righteous ancestors.  
May He extend his days and his years in delight. Amen.
Your poor maidservant – pathetic, grief-stricken, wretched, worried and impoverished  
by my sins – I hereby present my supplication [before the Lord and]  before you, that you may pay heed to the words of  
your maidservant, ‘because my sighs are many and my heart is [faint]’ (Lam 1:22), for I am all alone: I have neither  
husband, nor son, nor daughter, nor brother, nor sister. I am ‘like a  lonely bird  
on a rooftop’ (Pss 102:8). As my sins and my transgressions increased,  I developed a serious affliction upon my nose,  
and the infection spread, and it festered and my face was eaten away. This disease is worsening,  
and I cannot perform any work. I am naked, thirsty, and I lack
everything. I am powerless. There is no one to take care of me, even if  I were to die.  
Now then, [I] throw myself down before the Lord and before my lord,  that you might show pity to me, according to your kindness,  
and take action for me, for the sake of the Lord and the sake of the  merit of your righteous,  
pious and pure ancestors. ‘You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light [will shine] on your ways’ (Job 22:28).
And may my lord order a charitable collection in any place that our  lord desires,  
either in Cairo or the city, that I may find compassion and respite  from the Lord and from you.  
And let my lord not send me back empty-handed […] and humiliated from him. I shall be praying  
to the Lord for your pleasant and good name. And may God Almighty bless you, make you fruitful  
and multiply you, so that you become a congregation of nations, and  may He give Abraham’s blessing to you  
and to your descendants with you. And may your wellbeing increase and grow, and may your honour accrue  
and become greater than all others’, forever and for all eternity.  Amen.  
