Recto



Joseph b. David—may he rest in Eden!—will swear, on behalf of David, the son of his brother Solomon—may he rest in Eden!—


that he never cheated his father Solomon in any transaction, partnership, commenda, inheritance, or


other dealings from the time when any such commenda or transaction had been concluded between them


until now; also, that not one gold piece or more from the capital of: the partnership between the two brothers,


which was effective at the time when R. David sued him, was still owed, as Joseph asserted;


also, that from the newly concluded partnership between him and


his nephew R. David there did not remain with him anything concealed, deposited,


or delivered to someone else, nor was anything removed by ruses common among people,


such as a gift made to a wife, child, relative or foreigner, Jew or


Gentile; and that he did not possess and had not retained anywhere in the world anything except what is stated in the court record


detailed above; and the large sums that the other litigant agreed


in that record belonged to merchants—Muslim, Indian


and Egyptian, and that they had been delivered by him to them completely in a legally approved manner;


and that he did not possess anywhere gold or silver, in the form of jewelry and vessels 


or bullion, dinars, dirhems, or copper, goods


or merchandise, furniture or textiles, or promissory notes,


except: the 2,000 dinars mentioned by him in the (previous) court record; the (sums listed in) the agreement


with the sons of Bundār; the sums mentioned in the (previous) record, namely:


copper worth 100 dinars and seven qinṭars (= 700 pounds) mercury; smaller items in his possession,


including gold, silver, copper ⟦worth⟧; 50 dinars ⟦and the . . .⟧;


ten gala costumes stored with Ḥudhayfa; also 50 dinars in the hand of


Abu ʾl-Barakāt al-Ḥalabī (of Aleppo); and the cinnabar and the mercury stored with Khulayf b.


Hārūn (= Aaron); and the two houses in the Maṣṣāsa [quarter].


[addition from line 11:] The 500 dinars from Abu ’l-Ṭā[hir for] 30 brocade thawbs (robes); and the 10


units of corals, as well as the 59 gala costumes, the price of which


he owes {alt. tr.: is x dinars}; 100 silken fūṭas; 200 dinars owed to Abū Sahl, which


the aforementioned Dā<ʾū>d [= David] claimed {alt. tr.: and the 200 dinars designated for Abū Sahl, and [he gave/offered (?)] the house of the aforementioned as collateral for them}.


 