Bodl. MS heb. d 66/49 49 Verso

This is the formula of the Egyptian ketubba
of the Karaites.
In the name of the Everlasting God. The God made him prosper (II Chron. 26: 5). In the Lord
they will be justified (Is. 45: 25). The Mighty God will look from His elevated heaven, and will zealously defend
the sanctity of His name. He will rebuild His temple and His hall, and return
His Glory to His throne. He will bring Şemaḥ, may his name increase, and promptly gather together
the dispersed ones of His people, Amen. Let us begin in the
appropriate and lucky moment, in the lifetime of our Lord Şemaḥ, the nāsī,
the descendent of the Man of Rest, and in the lifetime of the groom and the bride, the light
and joy, and in the lifetime of the Karaites, the blossoming vine.
On the day so-and-so of the week which is day so-and-so of the month
so-and-so, of the year one thousand three hundred forty
seven of the era of the Greeks, in the land of Egypt,
in the city of Fusṭāṭ which is situated on the river Nile.
On this day so-and-so son of so-and-so, the groom, declared about himself before
the elders who sign below in this document, in a qinyan, according to the will
of his soul, desire, wish and aspiration, and he is not coerced, not mistaken,
not forced and not sick, but with full physical and mental faculties, and according to the aspiration of his soul
that he married, performed the qinyan and took for him such-and-such, the virgin, daughter

Bodl. MS heb. d 66/50 50 Recto

above, and that she took upon herself all the conditions they stipulated between them.
And so-and-so son of so-and-so, the agent, came and took us for witnesses about himself, in a qinyan, according to his will
and wish, that he betrothed the aforementioned such-and-such, the young girl, the virgin, daughter of so-and-so
to so-and-so son of so-and-so, to be his wife and companion according to the custom of the pure, faithful and suitable daughters of Israel
with their husbands, in faithfulness, love, purity
and holiness, by the mohar mentioned above, on the conditions mentioned in this deed
of betrothal. May they build and prosper, and rejoice in the joy of Jerusalem, the city of the Lord,
Zion, the holy of Israel. O Lord, please, save us, make us prosper.
And this is the opening of the beginning of the document of betrothal. In the lifetime of our Lord, His Glory, Highness,
Holiness, Ṣemaḥ, the nāsī, son of his Glory, Highness, Holiness, the nāsī, 'Asā, and in the lifetime of the fiancé
and the fiancée, their Rock will increase their soul and rejoice. O God, do not despise, do not disdain the dispersed ones
but gather them together promptly from all the parts, Amen. This is the formula
for a Karaite woman and a Rabbanite man. And that he will not bring to his house
where she dwells as his wife, the fat tail, the two kidneys and the lobe
of the liver, nor the meat of a pregnant animal, or the bread of the Gentiles,
or their wine, or their abomination. And he will not light the candle on Sabbath evenings,
and there will be no fire in his house on Sabbaths and he will not make love with her on Sabbaths
and festivals, as if they were week days. He will not force her
to profane the festivals of the Lord of the Hosts, according to the sighting of the Moon and the finding
of the aviv in the Land of Israel, because she is from the Karaites and belongs to their custom. And if
he breaks and changes anything from these arrangements, he will have to pay the delayed mohar
at the request [of divorce] issued when he breaks the arrangement. And she will have
this [right of] request upon him in any place she wants. And he came to her,
[and he is] her husband, and she is his wife as it is written: That is why the man leaves (Gen. 2: 24).

Bodl. MS heb. d 66/50 50 Verso

and upon, and it will be written in the ketubba.
