Verso, left side 


In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. God bless Muḥammad the  prophet and his family and save them.  


This is what ʿAbd al-Bāqī ibn Aḥmad, the preacher, leased from Mūsā ibn ʿAdī,  the Jew, in one contract: all of the  


house that is in his possession and in his ownership, as a valid asset and a right  with legal force, in the place known as Khawlān in the cul-de-sac street  


know as Muzāḥim street, in the vicinity of the mosque known as al-Abqūr mosque, it being the house with a courtyard,  


a spring water well, two upper dwellings above it and three huts that constitute  upper apartments thereof,  


[the fame] of this house in its location making it unnecessary to define it in this  document. (He leased it) for the period of a complete year, twelve months,  beginning  


 in the middle of Muḥarram of the year four-hundred and twenty-four and ending  in the middle of Muḥarram of the year  


four-hundred and twenty-five, for six dīnārs, assayed, full weight, of good alloy,  on the understanding that this lessee will pay  


this lessor at the end of each month the appropriate instalment of it, that is half a  dīnār, without delaying that or withholding it, everything that  


this lease entailed being free, without encumbrance, in a valid, permissible lease.  This took place after they had seen everything that  


this lease entailed and had recognized it. The lessor handed over to the lessee  everything that this lease entailed and his right  


to use it however he wishes came into force, whether inhabiting it or leasing it.  Whatever repairs are necessary  


in this house are the responsibility of the aforementioned lessee. They also called  witnesses, while being in sound health and legally capable of conducting their  affairs.  


It was written when thirteen days had passed of Muḥarram in the year four-hundred and twenty-four.  


 
Witness Clauses 


Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad ibn ʿAlī ibn .... (valid) testified  


to the acknowledgement by the lessor and the lessee  


of what is contained herein. Valid.  


ʿAlī ibn Ibrāhīm ibn Ḥasan ibn Ḥusayn (valid) testified  


to their acknowledgement of what is contained herein. Valid.  


Aḥmad ibn ʿAbdallāh ibn Muḥammad ibn ʿAbdallāh (valid) testified  


to the acknowledgement by the lessor and the lessee of what is contained herein.  


 