Page two, per editors (folio 1, recto, right side)


(For) opening of the heart.


Take a new bowl and write


for 3 days, every day these names,


wash it with water, and drink.


This is what you should write:


(2:6-8) (magic names)

 
 

For hate.


Write on an egg laid on the same day, immerse it


in water, pour it over the road


where they are about to pass. This is


what you should write:


(2:13-14) (magic names).


I adjure you, you


demons and idols with that of which you fear, that you should place


hatred, enmity and strife between N and N, Amen, Amen, Selah.


(2:between lines 1 and 2) “Happy is the man that does not take the wicked for his guide, nor walk the road that sinners tread, [nor take his] seat…” (Ps 1:1).
(2:in the margin above) … “The Lord has laid on another the consequences of your sin. / You shall not die” (2Sam 12:13).
 
Page seven, per editors (folio 1, recto, left side)
 


…(7:1) and stand against the sun so that your back should be towards the sun


while the mirror is in your hand, with the mirror facing the sun.


Look at the mirror strenuously with your eyes, but take care and be strong


with all your might so that you should not shut your eyes and not block them.


Be strong very much, with all your might, even if tears drop


from your eyes do not shut them and do not block them,


for indeed, because of the yellowness of the mirror, and of the power of


“like the brightness of” the sun, your eyes will be frightened and disturbed. But he should be strong


like a man of valour, for this did Mar (?) command. (When) you are strong to look at it


you will see the man you wish and seek, and you will see


everything t[hat… And you should] do thus. First you should adjure the mirror


and say: [I adjure you,] Satan, to show me N son of N.


And then you will look within an hour and you will see him, and this is valid (?).


If you wish your words to be heard by the people


or by a prince or a judge, say these verses


“Give ear, o ye heavens” etc. (Dt 32:1), “My doctrine shall drop as the rain” etc. (Dt 32:2), “When I call


the name of the Lord” (Dt 32:3), and you should say” I adjure you, holy


names, through which Moses admonished the Children of Israel


in the desert, that you should cause my words yo be heard by this


Page one, per editors (folio 1, verso, left side)


The opening of the heart. Write and wash off with water,


and in the same water you should knead a dough of barley,


and make three cakes from it,


and eat from them every day, a cake a day,


before studying. This is what you should write:


(1:6-8) (magic names)

 
 

[For love.]


Take a leaf of a fig tree, write on it, immerse


it in water, and let both of them drink from it. This is what


you should write: (magic names),


I adjure you,


you, holy angels, that you should give


love for N born of N in the heart of N born of N. If you cannot let them drink it,


pour it over the road through which they are about to walk.


Page eight, per editors (folio 1, verso, right side)



people or by N, and that my words should be acceptable. By the name of


(8:1-6) (magic names).

 
 
 
 

“I cried unto the Lord with my voice and He heard me out of His holy hill, Selah” (Ps 3:5). Blessed be the name of His kingship for ever and ever


Amen, Amen, Amen, Selah, Selah, Selah, Hallelujah. Selah. The gathering of demons. Burn frankincense…


Page four, per editors (folio 2, recto, right side)



(4:1-2) (magic names)


Blessed be the name of his kingship for ever. You


holy names, bind for me the eyes of all people,


so that they should not see me, me and all those who are with me. “Let the wicked


fall into their own nets together” (Ps. 141:10), whilst I go through in safety. “Fear and dread


shall fall upon them” (Ex 15:16) (The same words are repeated in inverted order). This amulet is designed


to save from robbers and from every evil man and from lions and from


evil beasts and from all evil things. By the name of


(4:8-11) (magic names) Amen, Amen, Selah.

 
 

Write it on the hide of a deer,


and place it in (a piece of) almond wood.


Page five, per editors (folio 2, recto, left side)


 

For love…


[...to a house where there is no] person and you will do (?), and in the house


there are four doors, and you will come in through them…


…[of the people]


whom you wish to connect with love, from their garments, from the hair of their


head or from their nails or from the skin (?)...


and you will begin and say concerning the spirits of the book…


and you will say among your words: Listen to me, fire and flame, [make love between N]


son of N and N son of N…


…their… and you will mention


…among your words…


concerning N son of N…


(5:14-16) …

 
 

or at their back…that there should be love…


until they die. This is (an amulet) for love. He hangs…


Page six, per editors (folio 2, verso, right side)



(6:1-2) (magic names, in which the Arabic word: al-waḥa “speed”, is included twice.)

 

I adjure you, … that you should bring me


now…[If he is asleep]


wake him, if he is sitting, make him stand and bring him to me,


and do not cause his mind to be taken from him. Be willing and say it


three times. Put the incense on the embers


with a piece of cloth from their garments or their hair. …and mention


…in your words, and if they come…at that


time know that… his mind is disturbed…as you wish,


and if you wish to bring him back…


…[will co]me to you, extinguish the embers…

