Recto

In the name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate.
I inform the presence of my lord, the Master of the Horses—may God prolong his life and cause his strength to endure—of the arrival of a letter by the hand of your slave boy
Ipisi on the matter of the place that was discussed previously with the sharīf. The man mentioned (the sharīf?)
is absent. When he arrives, I shall meet with him and talk to him concerning what I know. What I would like to tell
my honourable lord is that my goods are in the place of my brother Lāmiʿ. Following instructions and undertaking your service
is an obligatory duty for me for your sake. May God, the Blessed and Exalted, bring bounty to you.
As for the southern land, people have been arriving from there complaining about the lieutenant (al-khalīfa), the Master of
the Shipmasts, and a deputy (nāʾib) of the Qūsa. On account of this call for help in the land, the commander has come down and reprimanded the lieutenant (al-khalīfa)
and forbidden him to do wrong to anybody. He recognises your efforts to do good and likewise,
also my honourable lord. His (the commander’s) letters are arriving all the time giving instructions to protect the people of Nubia. As for the slaves of the Master
of the Horses, please take care of them and provide them with their needs. This matter necessitated the repudiation of the lieutenant (al-khalīfa)
and reprimanding him. Do not write in opposition to this and do not listen to anybody except them. May God, the Blessed and Exalted,
give you bounty. I would like a letter to be sent to all the administrators requesting them to protect the places of Lāmiʿ and his servants
and likewise my places and my servants. You know that they all perform good services to the king and to you. The lieutenant (al-khalīfa) mentioned that he has
instructions and he adhered to all of these. He wrote to Ibn ʿImrān, the deputy (nāʾib) of your honour, asking him about his salary
and he gave him his usual salary. Do not delay sending letters to me about your news. The commander is expecting

Recto, top margin

in great anticipation news to reach him from your honour. Ensure that your letters reach
the commander. Your envoys are in contact with him all the time. He has instructed that “when
a letter from the Master of the Horses arrives, they should send it to me with anybody who comes here.” Likewise my brother Lāmiʿ is expecting your letters.

Verso

Whatever needs your illustrious honour has, I am committed to carrying out your needs
and obeying your instruction. Farewell. Praise be to God alone. What a fine keeper is He!

Verso, postscript

Muḥsin has been delayed in delivering what is owed. Hehas just written a letter
saying that he cannot make it to the market of the cloth-merchants. I ask your honour to grant
forgiveness for that. My messenger will reach you afterthis letter of mine.
