recto

To my dear brother—may God give you long life, protect you and guard you,
not deny you His superior gift of success, be for you a guardian and protector
in all your affairs, avert from you anything that troubles you and keep away whatever
distresses you! This is to inform you—may God give you life!—that your esteemed letter 
arrived on the 24th of Tammuz. You blame me in it for
not having responded to your letters. My brother, did I not
send you, a pair of detailed letters concerning my circumstances and what I
endured? This was good for me, because the boats did not get through,
and the boat from which we disembarked is held up at al-Kanāʾis.
Why, my brother, do you cause my heart pain and distress me more, by saying
to me, “You care little about me”? The moment I heard these words
I almost expired. I swear by these lines that what caused me
to delay (or: withhold) my letters to you was only my compassion for you and because of what you said
about sending my letters with Sheikh Abū Naṣr. I am not
able to travel to the Square of the Perfumers, because I am afraid of
the (tax) office. The ‘ralliers’ took 13 dirhems.
I am staying with a Jewish man, whose acquaintance I made
ten days after my disembarking from the boat, because from the day I disembarked I worked
at the place of an Ishmaelite. As soon as he realized that I was a Jew, he would not let me work
at his place. So I started (working) at the place of that Jew in a house adjoining the
synagogue. I work on the loom. This keeps me impoverished, every day
two and a half dirhems! But I realized the 13 dirhems. As to

recto, right margin (postscript)
For your noble self best greetings, and for whoever is embraced by your care best greetings, first and foremost the two esteemed brothers, they and their children. May the God of Israel bless them, guard them and keep them! May He fulfill in them the verse “Your sons will succeed your ancestors”! I greet them with the best, 
recto, top margin (postscript, cont.)
most excellent greetings. Also for my lord Sheikh Abū Saʿīd and his children and mother best greetings. And for my lord Sheikh Abū Riḍā Isaac and his children (and) Sheikh Abu ʾl-Makārim best greetings. And peace.
verso

the lac, no one is buying or selling (it) in the city. There has arrived a ship
from Dāniya, which had in it all commodities, including silk, mercury and tin.
I believe that maybe it will sell to newcomers. I shall leave it with Sheikh Abū Naṣr
and come, God willing, with Ibn Bārūkh and Ibn Shabrūṭ. If you
inform me of any request that fits your needs, I’ll buy it for you. You
did not write me in detail about your situation, and you left me anxious about it.
Please (send) a detailed letter. May your well-being increase forever! Amen neṣaḥ
selah. May they bestow on you well-being! This letter was written on the 
27th of the month of Tammuz. May salvation be near! 

verso, address

This letter should be delivered to
Fustat—may God protect it!—to
the store of Sheikh Abu ʾl-Fakhr—may he live until the coming of the messiah!—
the perfumer b. R. his honor,
my lord and master Abraham—
may he rest in Eden! May he have life and peace! Amen. 

verso, address

This letter should be delivered to my esteemed brother
—may God give him long life!—
Peraḥyā son of his honor, my father 
and master—may he live until the coming of the messiah!—b. R. Peraḥyā—may he rest in Eden! 
(From) His brother, who longs
for him, Moses. May salvation be near! Ame[n].}
