Draft 1


The people whose names occur at the end of this court record, they being free,  


honourable and good Muslim men, testified,  


together and singly, that they know Bū al-Ḥasan ibn Abū Sahl ibn Ibrāhīm,  


the physician, the one requesting (this document to be drawn up), with valid and  sound knowledge, in person, name, and genealogy,  


are informed about his condition and are familiar with his affairs. They testify, with a testimony  


concerning which they have no doubt or misgiving, that he is a man of honour, soundness,  


good health, expertise and knowledge, trustworthy in the profession that he practises,  


reliable, on account of his devotion to his religion, in the treatment he undertakes and in other matters; in holding sessions  


in street stalls and in having freedom  


of access to the houses of people and the dwellings of those whom he treats. They have not known him  


to exhibit anything but charity, probity, trustworthiness, reliability and integrity.  


He is well qualified for his profession.  


They recognize, ratify and confirm what they have testified to. Since someone  has requested them,  


they have responded by registering their testimony to what  


they know of his trustworthiness, reliability, probity, expertise, uprightness  


and knowledge. They have responded to his request by stating all of this and have  registered it.  


This took place on such-and-such a day.  


 
Draft 2


In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate.  


The people registering their testimony at the end of this court record,  


they being free Muslim men, testified,  


together and singly, <that they know> the man requesting it, the rayyis Abū al-Ḥasan  


[ibn] Abū Sahl ibn lbrāhīm, the Jewish physician, with  


a valid knowledge.  


 
Draft 3 


The people registering their testimony at the end of this court record testified,  


together and singly, that they know the one requesting it,  


with a valid and comprehensive knowledge, in person, name and genealogy, are  apprised of  


his condition and are familiar with his affairs. They testify with a testimony  


concerning which they have no doubt or misgiving that he is a man of honour,  


soundness and good health, and that he is learned in the profession of medicine  


and knowledgeable about it in all its aspects, namely the treatment of diseases  


of the body and the cause of diseases of the eye, when they occur, 


and their correct treatment, and that he is well qualified  


for his profession and for what is required of him by way of trustworthiness, reliability, probity  


and integrity. They know that he possesses these qualities and they confirm it,  


and recognize, confirm and ratify what they testify to.  


Since someone has requested them, they have responded by registering their testimony  


to what they know in this regard. They have responded to his request and have registered it  


On the –  day.  


 