I have charged our brother Abu Ibrahim 'Ayyash, my brother-in-law, may God support him, to take care of my affairs. Then I have sent him additional goods and asked him to deal with them as well, and to complete all the operations. I wish now that you assist and help him until everything is carried out in accordance with my instructions. 
 
I have not charged you with this because I know your impatience. and how busy you are. Therefore I did not wish to impose on you the care for these goods. I am content with your assistance through encouragement and advice. For me this is worth as much as that, and even more. I wrote to the agent of the ship 'All Abii Dhahab and also to its captain that all you wished with regard to the transport of your goods, heavy baggage and other, should be carried out in accordance with your instructions; they should receive the goods from your brother and from the [. . .] and the friends and keep them and put them on the best place aboard. I strongly urged them to carry out their promises, so that the goods should not arrive too short a time before the sailing of the ships, but should be a support to you and strengthen your position.
 
Letters from you should arrive here all the time to keep us assured of your welfare. For we are disquieted until we receive letters telling us how you have been and how you are. And Peace upon you! 
 
(In the margin:) All the boys, Abu Sahl and his son, Abu Ibrahim, and the rest of the company, and everyone here send you kindest regards. 
The favor of the Creator, may he be exalted and glorified, which never leaves us even for an hour or a minute, caused the Illustrious Lady—may God make her glory permanent—to send me a dovecolored mule from her [stable] with a beautiful, long saddle, and beautiful robes of honor for myself and a garment of honor in the name of your brother, may God make [. . .] I am writing you this to make you happy, so that you may give thanks to God for this together with me. [And Peace.]
To Abu Ibrahim, may [. . .]," Isma'Il, son of Barhun, (may he) r(est in) E(den). From Judah b. Joseph.